Why gardening is so much more than a millennial fad to me
My family are one of the lucky few to have an allotment in London. With waiting lists that tend to span years, these plots of land are hard to come by. Hidden in Stockwell, ours seemed like a haven far away from the bustle of the city – and as I child, I loved it. It was full of prickly gooseberries, the most crimson mulberries, sprouting onions and summer strawberries; spending my weekends at our allotment was absolute bliss.

As the child of an adept florist, plants and gardening have always been a big part of my life. My mum, with her seriously green fingers and an astoundingly extensive knowledge of botany, can grow just about anything. Whether it’s an impressive arrangement of flowers stuffed with eucalyptus leaves, or an array of plant shoots, herbs or flower clippings, it always seemed inevitable that my mum’s love of plants and gardening would rub off on me.

And it did, for a while. Growing Club was a beloved after-school activity; nothing filled me with wonder quite like visiting those giant, humid greenhouses in Kew Gardens. And Ground Force was the best makeover show television had to offer, in my eyes.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Shape Created with Sketch. Scottish Nature Photography Awards Show all 12 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Scottish Nature Photography Awards 1/12 Eurasian Curlew with Shore Crab Winner of the Wildlife Behaviour category. Taken in Loch Fleet, Sutherland Toby Houlton 2/12 Breakfast at Dawn on the Solway Winner of the Environmental category. Taken in Sandyhills Bay, Dumfries and Galloway Roger Lever 3/12 Horsehair Parachute Mushroom Winner of the Botanical category. Taken in Ae Forest, Dumfries and Galloway Jean Robson 4/12 Roe Kid Flower Overall winner and winner of the wildlife portrait category. Taken in Edinburgh Phil Johnston 5/12 Allotments in Inverleith Park Winner of the Urban Greenspace category. Taken in Edinburgh Andras Sandor 6/12 Whisky on the Rocks Winner of the Natural Abstract category. Taken on the Isle of Lewis Charly Scleder 7/12 Peek-a-boo Winner of the Junior Nature Photographer award. Taken in Lossiemouth Woods in Moray by Kaitlyn Clark, age 8 from Inverness. Kaitlyn Clark 8/12 Beauly Winner of the Land category. Taken in Dundonnell, Ross and Cramarty Colin Campbell 9/12 Rattray Head Lighthouse Winner of the Sea & Coast category. Taken in Aberdeenshire Wojciech Kruczynski 10/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 11/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 12/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 1/12 Eurasian Curlew with Shore Crab Winner of the Wildlife Behaviour category. Taken in Loch Fleet, Sutherland Toby Houlton 2/12 Breakfast at Dawn on the Solway Winner of the Environmental category. Taken in Sandyhills Bay, Dumfries and Galloway Roger Lever 3/12 Horsehair Parachute Mushroom Winner of the Botanical category. Taken in Ae Forest, Dumfries and Galloway Jean Robson 4/12 Roe Kid Flower Overall winner and winner of the wildlife portrait category. Taken in Edinburgh Phil Johnston 5/12 Allotments in Inverleith Park Winner of the Urban Greenspace category. Taken in Edinburgh Andras Sandor 6/12 Whisky on the Rocks Winner of the Natural Abstract category. Taken on the Isle of Lewis Charly Scleder 7/12 Peek-a-boo Winner of the Junior Nature Photographer award. Taken in Lossiemouth Woods in Moray by Kaitlyn Clark, age 8 from Inverness. Kaitlyn Clark 8/12 Beauly Winner of the Land category. Taken in Dundonnell, Ross and Cramarty Colin Campbell 9/12 Rattray Head Lighthouse Winner of the Sea & Coast category. Taken in Aberdeenshire Wojciech Kruczynski 10/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 11/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 12/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb

But the love affair didn’t last forever. What became a Sunday afternoon treat filled with picking vegetables, watering seeds and eating seasonal berries, soon became a chore the older I got.

After all, allotments and gardening weren’t cool, none of my friends gardened and the trendy botanical aesthetic that we millennials now love so much wasn’t in fashion when I was 14.

So, from my teenage years, up until finishing university, owning plants – let alone caring for them – was out of the question. I’d politely decline each time my mum invited me to the allotment, and switch over the channel when the Chelsea Flower Show was on television, pushing down whatever semblance of love I had for it in the past.

But now like many millennials, houseplants have become an obsession. We’re 88 per cent more likely to keep plants in our rooms than over 65 year olds. And I get it, the average age for first-time buyers has increased by seven years and in all this uncertainty, sometimes plants feel like the only thing that can brighten up our overpriced, rented shoe boxes. But they provide much more than just a backdrop for fabulous Instagram pictures.

I fell back in love with plants after getting a small Jade succulent from a colleague at my first ever office job. At first, it was another burden to add on top of my already hefty workload. But caring for it every day and watching it grow gave me more solace than I anticipated. No matter how stressed I was, caring for that one little plant really made feel like everything would be okay. It was the start of me falling back in love with plants and gardening again. That satisfaction of seeing the fruits of my labour never left me.

It sounds silly, but learning to care for plants has really helped me care for myself. I don’t have a child and I don’t have the space or money for pets, but plants do give me a sense of responsibility. On days when I’m feeling down and just want to stay in bed, knowing my plants need watering forces me to get up.

Having something to look after and care for feels so rewarding. I literally reap what I sow, and I get such a kick from all the money I save on herbs now that I grow my own. But one of the best perks about gardening is the time away from my phone, and getting a much-needed breather from the anxieties of social media.

I’m lucky enough to have a small garden in my flat. I have a herb bed with rosemary, sturdy thyme, purple sage and parsley. I’ve picked up great gardening hacks, such as buying potted herbs from the supermarket and planting them myself. I’ve added to my collection, too. Just last week, I planted some sunflowers and white onions, and my bedroom windowsill is filled with succulents. I can’t go to IKEA without coming back with a plant or three, and heading down to Deptford market and buying some cheap potted plants is one of my favourite pastimes.

On top of plants being aesthetically pleasing, they are a life force. Golden pothos, for example, literally purifies the air – it removes benzene and carbon dioxide while replenishing the air with oxygen, making it an ideal plant for the bedroom.

Each plant has a special memory, like my plump gasteria hanging in a macrame, which I got when I first moved house, or my giant tomato plants I bought as a tiny stalk from a summer fair for 50p.

I might not have fingers as green as my mum yet, and I’m still learning as I go – and that’s the process I love the most. The need to care for something is a basic instinct and in an era where we millenials feel so lonely, having plants isn’t just an aesthetic fad; it benefits our mental health too. We should all try and connect a little bit more to nature, it’s an inexpensive hobby, yet brings a world of comfort.Update your home for the new year
As our homes shed their Christmas spirits, decorations are retired to attic-bound boxes and wizened pines are propped miserably against suburban kerbs. For so many, much of the joy of Christmas can be found in the adornment of the home: decking the halls, as it were. I know I’m not alone when I say I feel a tangible sense of loss around this time of year, a festering unfestiveness. Home simply doesn’t feel as special, as decorated or as welcoming in the glaring absence of a large spruce, garnished with trinkets from Christmases past. However, this year, I have taken it upon myself to maintain that sense of playful decoration around my flat. Little flourishes in each room to catch the eye, inexpensive and joyful. So now the baubles have served their time, ‘tis the season for more evergreen accessorising.

Bathroom

It seems only right and fitting to start with some home updates in 2019’s most wanted colour, Pantone’s Living Coral. Add a hit of the vibrant, optimistic and warm shade in your bathroom with a new set of towels. Sheridan Australia’s Living Textures collection is available in aptly named colourway, Coral.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Featuring a ribbed pattern, these 100 per cent cotton towels are ultra-absorbent and irresistibly plush. The collection also includes decadent jewel tones and minimalist neutrals depending on your style. As the trend for open shelving rages on, why not display your new Christmas beauty gifts in your bathroom, rather than stowing them away in a dusty medicine cabinet?

That way, they may actually be used. Nadia McCowan Hill, resident style advisor at Wayfair.co.uk, suggests styling your pampering goodies, candles and any bath time reads on a cocktail trolley, adding that “golden accents like the serving drink trolley by Vical Home on Wayfair.co.uk, will help to create a spa-worthy space.”

Kitchen

Polishing off all the Christmas treats in the pantry is the primary objective of everyone’s January, so why not do it in style? Spread your leftover strawberry conserve from the Christmas hamper on thick-cut toast, fresh from a Smeg X Dolce & Gabana toaster. Never before has a collection of kitchen appliances ignited such excitement, each piece complete with painterly, Italianate motifs and circusiana charm. The highly decorative collection includes kitchen essentials such as a blender, a juicer, and so on. It is poetically named, Sicily is My Love, and while toast is mine, perhaps these pieces can join me in my kitchen too.

All those aboard the Dry January wagon, look away now. Carry the decadence of the Christmas cocktail party into the New Year with a bar accessories set, such as this marble and copper set by Oliver Bonas. As we speed towards the 100th anniversary of the Roaring Twenties, don’t for a minute believe that F Scott Fitzgerald wasn’t knocking back mint juleps in 1919. Turn a corner of your kitchen into a flair bar for year-round festivity. And remember, good booze isn’t just for Christmas.

Bedroom

It goes without saying that the quickest and easiest update you can make to a bedroom is switching up the bedding. Whether you prefer plain white linen or something colourful, the look and feel of your bedroom can be instantly elevated with a bedding update. New homewares brands with an eco-focus are taking over the market, with brands like Urban Collective and Aizome demonstrating new ways that design can be environmentally conscious.

Urban Collective uses recycled materials and bamboo to create its linens, combining Scandi-style and forward thinking manufacturing techniques. Aizome is another new brand operating out of Japan, named after the ancient process of indigo dyeing. Using only organic cotton and natural indigo dye, the linens are certified toxin-free and skin soothing.

One final bedding suggestion is Rise & Fall, the new project from two New Zealand born, UK-based entrepreneurs, Jed Coleman, founder of Caravan Restaurants and Caravan Coffee Roasters and Will Coulton.

The collection of classic white cotton sheets are available in two weaves created using the world’s finest 100% long staple cotton, gossypium barbandense. The best part is, you can sleep even more easily knowing that £3 from each sale goes to Centrepoint, a youth homeless charity that helps people who are sleeping rough.

Another New Zealand brand is Ashley & Co, a home fragrance company fit for any room in the house. Fragrancing your home is one of the best ways to make your space feel more special. Ashley & Co’s collection of fragrances includes home perfume (diffusers) and waxed perfume (candles) in eight signature scents ranging from musky florals to woody citruses. The architectural layering of the notes in the fragrances is designed with the same attention to detail as the shape and style of the elegant glass vessels themselves – the perfect flourish for an empty corner or shelf.

So treat yourself this January, and carry the decorative spirit of Christmas into the New Year.Pale, Male and Stale: Why The BAFTAs Template Needs A Rethink
Thank goodness for the great British public – or at least that sector of it that voted for the EE Rising Star award, and so provided a lacklustre BAFTA awards with its only prize to be won by a person of colour. Micheal Ward took the prize for his brilliant performances in Top Boy and Blue Story and then brought a welcome blast of emotion to a ceremony that was safe, stale, male and pale – and almost entirely predictable.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020 Red Carpet Dresses

“Seek out opportunities and see a vision,” he said, with sincerity, as his mother sobbed and waved from the audience. Ward’s presence was a stark reminder of absence elsewhere, a fact that the embarrassed organisers tried to disguise with their choice of presenters and that failsafe British mechanism of self-critical joshing, including an opening segment presented by Asim Chaudhry (Chabuddy G) in the style of a British Airways advertisement.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

That was until Joaquin Phoenix stepped up to the podium to collect his best actor BAFTA and, clearly having decided the best actor Oscar is in the bag and it’s time to speak out, threw a grenade into the room by calling on the industry to “do the hard work to truly understand systemic racism”. He included himself in the admonishment, insisting that the “people who have created, perpetuated and benefited from a system of oppression [ought] to be the ones to dismantle it”.

© David Fisher/BAFTA/Shutterstock

It was an uncomfortable moment in many ways – all too easy to mock given the amount of privilege Phoenix himself carries – but when, later in the ceremony, the president of BAFTA, the Duke of Cambridge (who had spent the night grinning his way uncomfortably through jokes about his family) said that the lack of diversity “simply cannot be right in this day and age”, it’s a sign that the film industry really does have a problem that other areas of the arts have gone much further on the road to remedy.

Read more: See All The Pictures From The British Vogue Fashion And Film Party In Partnership With Tiffany & Co

It’s not the only thing that needs addressing, however, on what felt from the comfort of an armchair like a leaden and laboured night. BAFTA must also decide whether it is a genuinely independent ceremony celebrating films that appeal to British tastes – or simply a harbinger of the Oscars which closes the odds on awards in most categories. It was cheering to see 1917, which follows two British soldiers on a desperate mission, win big; it is a magnificent film which is about much more than its illusion of a single continuous shot, and Sam Mendes was a gracious, articulate winner. But to see it take home seven of the nine awards for which it was nominated when a film as powerful as Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman went home empty-handed seems unduly blinkered.

© Anthony Harvey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

Scorsese’s collaborator, Thelma Schoonmaker, didn’t even win the best editing prize; that went to the showy all-boy mechanics of Le Mans 66, an enjoyable film but not one we will be talking about in even a year’s time. Only Brad Pitt’s win in the best supporting actor category saved Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time in Hollywood’s blushes; it also gave Pitt the chance to make a speech in absentia via Margot Robbie and to make one of those royal cracks, saying he will call his prize Harry because he was “excited about bringing it back to the States”.

But Tarantino lost out in the best screenplay category to Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite (which also picked up the award for best film not in the English language). He applauded but his face was like stone for most of the ceremony; it must be very hard to produce one of the best films of your life yet still have to play the gallant loser for the cameras.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

On occasion, the ceremony departed from the predictable and pre-ordained script (Renée Zellweger won best actress for Judy, Laura Dern best supporting actress for Marriage Story). BAFTA’s choice of Jojo Rabbit’s Taika Waititi as best adapted screenplay winner improves its chances in the same category at the Oscars, but it means that the shutout of Greta Gerwig for her imaginative and life-enhancing work on Little Women was complete.

Read more: Moments You May Have Missed At The BAFTAs 2020

The choice of Joker for the new award for casting – which ignored the ground-breaking multi-racial and colour-blind casting of The Personal History of David Copperfield, as well as the Rolls Royce choices of supporting cast in OUATIH and Marriage Story – felt positively peculiar. Whatever you think of Joker, it is a film built around a single dynamic performance; the others have a richness of acting talent on display that it simply lacks, and it was hard not to feel that perhaps the voters simply went for the film they had watched earliest and knew best.

© David Fisher/BAFTA/Shutterstock

There were some moments to savour. The arrival of Waad and Hamza al-Kateab and their daughter Sama on stage to collect the best documentary award (with co-director for Edward Watts) for For Sama, which records their life under siege in Aleppo, Syria, was hugely emotional. Waad’s impassioned plea that people should let the 3.5 million people still under bombardment and the heroic medical teams who care for them “hear your voice” was one of the most powerful speeches of the night.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020: Vogue’s Best Dressed

In a lighter vein, there was Hugh Grant’s encounter with his former Bridget Jones’s Diary co-star Zellweger. Before he announced the winner of the best film, he drawled: “First of all, well done Jones. That was a very, very silly little dress, I thought.” Every woman in the room laughed in recognition of a line from the film; many of the men looked marginally baffled.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

And then there was Rebel Wilson, one of the few presenters to bring her own script, and what a script it was: scabrous, rude, full of gags about the failure of Cats – “there has been a distinct lack of nominations for felines” – and ending with a delicious dig at the all-male best director shortlist. “I don’t think I could do what they do. Honestly, I just don’t have the balls.”

There were also wins for the distinctly British Bait, a film shot in black and white, on 16mm film, hand processed by its director Mark Jenkin, about two brothers in a Cornish fishing village (in the best debut category) and for the glorious British short animation Grandad Was A Romantic, directed by Maryam Mohajer. The fact that her victory was not shown in the British TV coverage sums up just about everything that was wrong with the BAFTAs in 2020.

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.Why Everyone – Kendall Jenner Included – Wants To Be A Navarro Cheerleader
Thought cheerleading was all high kicks, pom-poms, and dating jocks? Wrong. The most hyped documentary series on Netflix right now follows the members of a college cheer squad from a small town in Texas as they prepare to defend their national championship – and Olivia Newton-John in Grease it ain’t. The gravity-defying efforts of the fearless (and, frankly, hard as nails) athletes on Cheer have captivated viewers, Kendall Jenner included; the supermodel even pulled off a pretty impressive full extension on Ellen as the cast looked on. Here’s why you need to get “on mat”, and fast.

We could all benefit from a one-to-one session with coach Monica

Navarro College Cheer coach Monica Aldama © Courtesy of Netflix

Navarro College Cheer’s now not-so-secret weapon? Step forward, Monica Aldama. Referred to simply as “the Queen” by her adoring team (“I would take a bullet for that woman,” says flyer Morgan at one point), this perfectionist Southern belle’s methods are of the iron fist in a velvet glove variety, and they’ve made the Navarro name legendary in cheerleading circles. She expects 100 per cent from her athletes off the mat as well as on, and as the series unfolds, it becomes increasingly (and movingly) clear just how invested she is in all aspects of her “kids”’ lives – not just their ability to execute a flawless full out. A composed, even taciturn presence at first, you’ll wonder why the squad is so obsessed with her. By the third episode, you’ll wish she was your cheer mom.

There are as many tales of triumph over adversity as there are nail-biting stunts

Flyer and top girl Morgan Simianer © Courtesy of Netflix

For many of these teens, the threat of cracking a rib in training is nothing compared to what they’ve been through outside the gym. From poverty, neglect, sexual abuse and suicide attempts to devastating loss and run-ins with the law, several credit the structure, support and sense of belonging that being on the team has given them with saving their lives.

Be more like Jerry Harris is our 2020 mantra

It takes approximately half an episode to fall in love with Jerry Harris, and that’s before learning that he tragically lost his mother at age 16. An adorable bundle of positivity and good vibes, we’d like the team’s unofficial mascot to mat talk us into work each morning (we’d probably just backflip our way to our desks). Expect to become deeply invested in whether or not Jerry makes mat.

The teammates’ bond is heart-warming

We should expect nothing less from cheerleaders, but the way the athletes support, encourage and motivate one another is genuinely heart-warming. If the pep talk Jerry is given in the heart-pounding final seconds before they take to the stage in Daytona doesn’t move you to tears, you should probably check you still have a pulse.

The team is all about inclusivity

© Courtesy of Netflix

Corsicana, Texas, is conservative, Christian, and unlikely to be a wholly comfortable environment for the gay members of the team. But Navarro is a haven for cheerleaders like La’Darius Marshall, who describes how it made him feel truly accepted after being subjected to homophobic bullying as a child. “I might be a little bit old-school with values and stuff like that, but I get angry,” says Aldama, herself a Christian. “I will debate you up one side and down the other if you talk about my boys. You know, those are my kids. I’ll fight tooth and nail for them,” she says. You believe her.

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.6 Oscar-Nominated Films To Watch On Netflix Ahead Of The Academy Awards 2020
Marriage Story

If you’re in need of a good cry this weekend, allow me to recommend Marriage Story – Noah Baumbach’s utterly brilliant depiction of a marriage slowly falling apart and individual lives slowly coming together. Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson earned well-deserved Best Actor and Best Actress nods for their starring roles, while Laura Dern is tipped to win Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of manic, tea-swilling divorce lawyer Nora (who, incidentally, would probably get along like a house on fire with Dern’s Big Little Lies character Renata Klein). Pour yourself a glass of Pinot Noir, brush up on your knowledge of Stephen Sondheim’s Company, and enjoy.

© Netflix

The Edge Of Democracy

Director Petra Costa marries the political and the personal in her study of the history of democracy in her native Brazil. “Brazilian democracy and I are almost the same age,” the 36 year old points out in the film’s trailer while home video footage of her casting her first election ballot plays in the background. She specifically hones in on the deep-rooted corruption within the Worker’s Party, which resulted in the imprisonment of former President Lula (2003-2010) and the impeachment of his successor in office, Dilma Rousseff (2011-2016). Nominated for Best Documentary Feature, it’s essential viewing following the controversial election of Brazil’s current President Jair Bolsonaro at the end of 2019.

© Netflix

The Irishman

With a runtime of three hours and 29 minutes, Martin Scorsese’s latest mob epic is a commitment – but one that’s well worth making. Based on I Heard You Paint Houses, former homicide prosecutor Charles Brandt’s study of the murder of Jimmy Hoffa, it charts the life of hit man Frank “The Irishman” Sheeran, played exquisitely by Robert De Niro, as he falls in with mafia kingpin Russell Bufalino (Joe Pesci), ultimately serving as bodyguard to the wheeling and dealing labour union leader Hoffa. With no less than 10 Oscar nominations this year, including Best Picture and Best Director, it’s a must-watch.

© Netflix

I Lost My Body

Adapted from a novel by the screenwriter behind Amélie, I Lost My Body is one of the most bizarrely wonderful films to make its way to the Oscars in recent years. Nominated for Best Animated Feature, the macabre plot chronicles a severed hand’s quest to be reunited with its owner Naoufel – a pizza delivery boy whose life, including his nostalgia-inducing childhood in Morocco, is gradually revealed through flashbacks. (Notably, the character is voiced in English by none other than Dev Patel.) Just as remarkable as the Studio Ghibli-inspired ethos of the film? The electronic score by Dan Levy, who director Jérémy Clapin refers to as the drama’s co-author.

_PMP1135.ARW © Netflix

The Two Popes

The latest from Brazilian director Fernanco Meirelles (City of God and The Constant Gardener), The Two Popes is a fictional account of the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI following the Vatican leaks and the ascension of Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio – now Pope Francis – to the head of the church. Anthony Hopkins and Jonathan Pryce are nominated for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor for their roles as Benedict and Francis, respectively – but more than their individual performances, it’s the chemistry and banter between the two Hollywood veterans throughout this quietly moving film that make it so enjoyable to watch.

© Netflix

American Factory

Made by Barack and Michelle Obama’s Higher Ground Productions and nominated for Best Documentary Feature, this fascinating documentary chronicles the lives of the employees of an auto-glass manufacturing plant in Dayton, Ohio, run by a mammoth Chinese company named Fuyao. Directors Steven Bognar and Julia Reichert – who shot a previous documentary in the factory when it was first closed by General Motors – delicately juxtapose the beliefs of American and Chinese employees, who work side-by-side in high-risk jobs. A stunning portrait of how the global economy is reshaping our lives for better and for worse.

Read more: Here’s Everything You Need To Know About The Oscars 2020

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.Iran plane downing: Tehran ends co-operation with Ukraine
Image copyright Reuters Image caption All 176 people on Ukraine International Airlines flight PS752 died when Iranian missile fire hit the plane

Iran has ceased co-operation with Ukraine in its investigation into the downing of Ukrainian passenger jet PS752 by Iranian missiles last month.

It comes after leaked remarks suggested Iran knew immediately that it had struck the plane.

Ukrainian TV aired an exchange between air traffic control and a pilot who was landing as the jet crashed.

The Iranian pilot allegedly states he saw a flash like missile fire in the sky, and then an explosion.

Iran initially denied responsibility for the downing on 8 January that killed 176, but Ukraine's president said the conversation proved the country knew the flight had been hit by a missile.

At the time Iran was on high alert, having fired ballistic missiles at two US bases in Iraq in retaliation for the killing of top Iranian general Qasem Soleimani in a US drone strike in Baghdad.

"We will no longer provide any documents to the Ukrainians," the head of the Iranian investigation team, Hassan Rezaeifar, told Iranian news agency Mehr on Monday.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Pedram Mousavi, Mojgan Daneshmand, and their two daughters were all passengers on flight PS752

In the aftermath of the incident, Iran agreed to co-operate in investigating with "foreign experts".

There are clearly tensions over the conduct of the investigation, the BBC's correspondent in Ukraine Jonah Fisher explains.

Ukraine wants to look at the black box flight recorders. Iran has been stalling for weeks and is insisting on trying to extract the information in Tehran, he adds.

What's in the leaked recording?

The recording is of a conversation between an Iranian pilot who was landing shortly after the doomed Ukrainian passenger jet took off, and the control tower in Tehran.

In an audio clip published by a Ukrainian YouTube channel, the Aseman Airlines pilot says he is seeing lights in the sky ahead.

"Is this an active area? There's lights like a missile. Is there anything?" he says.

"Nothing has been reported to us. What's the light like?" the controller replies.

The pilot says: "It's the light of a missile."

The control tower is then heard trying to contact the Ukrainian plane several times, without success.

After a few minutes, the Iranian pilot tells the control tower he has just seen a "big light from an explosion".

When politics and air investigations collide

The country where a plane crashes is usually responsible for leading investigations, but political interests can get in the way.

In 2014 a missile hit flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine at the height of conflict between Ukrainian troops and Russian-backed groups.

Both sides blamed each other for the disaster which killed 283 passengers.

The Netherlands, which lost 193 citizens, commissioned three investigations, and in 2018 a joint team concluded the plane was downed by a Russian missile.

In 2015 Egyptian and Russian officials disagreed on the causes of the Russian Airbus 321 crash in the Sinai peninsula which killed 224 people.

It wasn't until 2016 that the Egyptian president acknowledged the Russians' conclusion that Islamic state militants were behind the disaster.

And sometimes airlines are reluctant to admit they may be at fault.

A Yemenia Airways crash en route to the tiny Comoros Islands in 2009 was blamed on pilot error by French and US officials.

But Yemenia Airways, which had been accused previously of poor safety, rejected the findings and demanded further readings of the plane's black box.Juventus 3-0 Fiorentina: Cristiano Ronaldo scores twice to reach 50 Juventus goals
Ronaldo has scored 33 goals in 33 appearances for club and country this season

Cristiano Ronaldo scored two penalties to take his tally to 10 goals in his last six games as Juventus beat Fiorentina 3-0.

The hosts were first awarded a spot kick for handball in the first half and Ronaldo swept home the penalty.

Rodrigo Bentancur was fouled inside the box towards the end of the second half and Ronaldo again converted.

Matthijs de Ligt then headed in a third in injury time.

Ronaldo has now scored in nine successive Serie A games for Juventus, becoming the first player to do so since David Trezeguet in December 2005.

He has also scored 50 goals in just 70 appearances since joining the Italian giants in 2018.

The win strengthens Juventus' place at the top of the table, with 54 points from 22 games - six clear of Inter Milan.Neymar: PSG star celebrates birthday with lavish bash after coach called it a 'distraction'
Neymar arrives at his white-themed party in a suit and matching fedora. He turns 28 on Wednesday

Neymar celebrated his upcoming 28th birthday with a lavish party at Parisian nightclub Yoyo on Sunday.

Paris St-Germain manager Thomas Tuchel skipped the white-themed party under the Palais de Tokyo, after branding it "a distraction", with the event coming just two days before their next game.

It appeared to be a sentiment not shared by the Brazilian's team-mates and celebrity pals however, with Edinson Cavani, Marco Verratti and Angel di Maria embracing the dress code and injured Lyon winger Memphis Depay sporting a pair of £1,200 boots.

All white on the night (left to right): Memphis Depay, Angel di Maria, Edinson Cavani and Marco Verratti

Serial party host Neymar is well known for his extravagant get-togethers, but it was reported that Neymar would rein in his celebrations this year before his actual birthday on Wednesday.

He threw a 'Nuit Rouge' themed event for his 27th birthday for around 200 guests, while he welcomed in his 26th birthday with a black tie event attended by Lewis Hamilton and the president of Brazil.

Sunday's bash came a day after PSG's bad-tempered 5-0 victory against Montpellier, that was notable for incidents involving a pink-haired Neymar and team-mate Kylian Mbappe.

Neymar shrugged off an injury scare, taunted the opposition with his signature tricks and raged at the officials.

Mbappe, 21, reacted angrily to being substituted midway through the second half.

"These are distractions, and they give the impression we are not serious, not professional," said Tuchel, in his post-match comments when discussing Neymar's party.

But on Tuesday, he denied he had a personal issue with Neymar.

"It's my choice not to participate in the party," Tuchel said. "It's a choice as a coach; it's not against Neymar personally."

Mbappe appeared to skip the party all together, instead opting to watch the Kansas City Chiefs win the Super Bowl after attending an event at Disneyland Paris.

Maybe he couldn't find anything white to wear...England in South Africa: The issues facing England at start of new ODI cycle
England beat New Zealand after a super over in their last 50-over match - the World Cup final at Lord's

It's 205 days since England's last one-day international on THAT glorious, sun-kissed Sunday at Lord's.

Then, England won their first 50-over World Cup in the most dramatic fashion but now, 6,000 miles away in the shadow of Table Mountain, a new chapter begins.

Tuesday, and the first of three ODIs against South Africa, marks the beginning of a new four-year cycle as England ultimately build towards defending their world title in India in 2023.

So how are the world champions looking going into the series, what issues are on the horizon and what changes could happen?

Will Morgan stay on as captain?

Morgan was appointed England captain shortly before the 2015 World Cup in Australia

The biggest issue around the future of England's 50-over team surrounds their captain Eoin Morgan - the man who took them from no-hopers to world champions in the space of four years.

Following the World Cup, Morgan did not immediately commit to staying on as skipper, citing back problems, and he has so far only guaranteed continuing until the Twenty20 World Cup in October in Australia.

This - and the fact Morgan will be 36 when the next World Cup begins - raises serious doubts over whether he will be part of the England team in 2023.

Former assistant coach Paul Farbrace, who was a key part of England's white-ball improvements before leaving the set-up in spring 2019, said Morgan may be tempted to walk away if his side win the T20 World Cup.

Farbrace told BBC Sport: "Whether he will be playing in another four years, who knows? If his form is good and his fitness is good then there is no reason why he shouldn't."

'Buttler the heir apparent'

Buttler last captained England against Pakistan in May 2019 when Morgan was suspended

Farbrace says that if - or when - Morgan does move on from the captaincy, the plan is in place within the England set-up for wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Buttler to take over.

Buttler, 29, is the current vice-captain and has stood in on six occasions when Morgan has been unavailable.

"Buttler is the heir apparent," Farbrace said. "He is a very good leader within that team. He will make a fantastic captain.

"He and Morgs think very similarly about the game but, equally, he will be his own man.

"He does more in the dressing room than people give him credit for. He has a big say in a lot of things. He and [Ben] Stokes are the two big talkers in the dressing room."

Media playback is not supported on this device Watch the moment England won the World Cup

Although he believes Buttler is ready to captain England, Farbrace said he would prefer Morgan to continue for at least two more years, until after the T20 World Cup in India in 2021.

"If Jos doesn't take over the captaincy for another year, 18 months or two years and has an 18-month period into the World Cup, that would be perfect for him," Farbrace said.

"There would be a danger if Jos took over too soon and he had four years to build a team then that might be too long.

"I'd like to think Morgs will do it for the next couple of years and win the T20 World Cup at least once. It would also give Jos little bit more time to be in position to take over as captain."

Who else could move on?

The squad for England's series against South Africa is largely made up of the 2019 World Cup-winning cohort with a handful of additions and some key players rested.

However, bowlers Jofra Archer and Tom Curran are the only World Cup winners who will be aged under 30 by the time the 2023 tournament begins.

Liam Plunkett, 34, has not been selected to play in South Africa and it seems England have already moved on from the bowler who has played 89 ODIs and took 11 wickets during the World Cup campaign.

Morgan, Adil Rashid and Moeen Ali would all be at least 34, although Rashid and Moeen's role as spinners give them a better chance of survival.

Farbrace said he still expects most of the World Cup winners to be involved in three years' time but says England will be wary of fielding an ageing team.

How many of England's World Cup winners will make India 2023? Player Age at start of 2023 World Cup Jason Roy 32 Jonny Bairstow 33 Joe Root 32 Eoin Morgan 36 Ben Stokes 31 Jos Buttler 32 Chris Woakes 33 Liam Plunkett 37 Adil Rashid 34 Jofra Archer 27 Mark Wood 33 James Vince 31 Moeen Ali 35 Liam Dawson 32 Tom Curran 27

"Most will want to be there," he said. "Winning the World Cup at home was brilliant for them and brilliant for the game, but they would like to win it in a different country as well.

"With Morgan, Rashid and Moeen, England will want them to be playing good cricket and not going in with injuries.

"The other thing would be the mobility of them. If you have too many older players who lack mobility and are not so good in the field you will struggle, because in India on small grounds your fielding is going to have to be magnificent.

"It will be a case of wanting their variation and skills but wanting them to be at the top of their game."

So who could come in?

There were signs of England looking to the future in late 2019 with batsman Tom Banton, all-rounder Lewis Gregory and bowlers Pat Brown, Saqib Mahmood and Matt Parkinson making their T20 debuts during the series win over New Zealand.

Banton, Mahmood and Parkinson have all been included for the series in South Africa, with Brown only missing because of a back injury.

Middlesex and England bowler Steven Finn expects Lancashire fast bowler Mahmood to make many more international appearances.

"Domestically, whenever I saw him on TV last year or when Middlesex played Lancashire he bowled very, very impressively," Finn told BBC Sport. "He is someone to keep an eye on."

Banton averaged 31.85 in seven matches in the Big Bash for Brisbane Heat

Somerset batsman Banton, 21, is perhaps the most well known of the trio. He scored a T20 century for Somerset last summer, starred with three fifties in an impressive stint in the Big Bash League this winter and has been described as a "future star" by former England captain Michael Vaughan.

"He could quite easily come into that England team and keep the momentum going," Farbrace said.

"He is a fantastic player and has been very impressive. Phil Salt at Sussex is another who is very exciting."

Salt, who has also been impressing in the Big Bash, was called into the England squad as injury cover last summer, although he did not play.

Warwickshire director of cricket Farbrace also highlighted Bears batsman Sam Hain, 24, Warwickshire fast bowler Henry Brookes, 20, Lancashire batsman Liam Livingstone, 26, who has played two T20s for England, and Sussex bowler Ollie Robinson as other players who could be involved.

Robinson, who is Farbrace's stepson, has taken 137 County Championship wickets across the past two seasons and made his England Lions debut in 2019.

Mission India 2023 - find more death bowlers?

So England have three years to mould a team capable of defending their title in 2023.

To do so they must take into account the conditions they will face on the subcontinent, conditions which are likely to differ greatly to those in England.

England selected 34 players between the 2015 and 2019 World Cups before eventually settling on a stable squad of players in the run-up to the 2019 tournament - the arrival of Archer aside.

Farbrace expects England to employ a similar period of experimentation over the next two years.

"We didn't nail down our plan for the first 18 months," Farbrace said. "It was very fluid.

"England will have 15 months of experiment and widening the talent pool and then narrow it down, nailing down the game plan that is specific for India.

"The last three World Cups have been won by the host nation and in 2023 England can expect to find small grounds with flat, high-scoring pitches.

Jofra Archer can expect to be part of England's 2023 World Cup squad and has gained experience of bowling in India at the Indian Premier League

"How well you bowl in the last 10 overs will be an absolutely key part of the next World Cup. Who wins it will have the best bowling attack, not the best batting line-up.

"England will be happy where their batting is at. There is no need to change too much with that.

"The key now is making sure we have enough variety and skill in our bowling.

"There will not be too many wickets with the new ball so you want players who can close matches out and stop opposition batsmen scoring more than 80 runs off the last 10 overs.

"Your yorker bowlers, slower-ball bowlers and skilful seamers are going to play a massive part. That will end up being the difference between the teams."

Although not part of the upcoming South Africa series, the inaugural ICC Cricket World Cup Super League begins in May 2020 and will form part of the qualification process for India 2023.

Hosts India and the top seven sides in the World Cup Super League will guarantee their place at the showpiece.

England's first matches in the Super League are a three-match series with Australia in July.