Yemen's medical air bridge offers rare glimpse of hope
Image caption Raghad is on a short list of 30 patients set to fly out of Sanaa as part of a "medical air bridge"

Peals of laughter bounced off the bright yellow walls of an inflatable castle, and the click-clack of children playing air hockey pierced the air.

Thirteen-year old Raghad pushed the plastic puck with all the strength she could muster from her delicate frame. The hint of a smile peeked from her protective face mask.

"She's always been the smartest girl in her class," her father Abdullah proudly informed me as we sat in the garden of a Sanaa hotel where their family and dozens of others have waited months for a long-promised UN flight to get medical care abroad.

"Her health became worse and worse while we waited here," he said with frustration. "Doctors here don't have the capabilities to treat her."

"I love her," Abdullah sighed, his voice breaking mid-sentence. "When she grows up she wants to be a doctor to specialise in orthopaedics to help children just like her."

Image copyright EPA Image caption Sanaa has been controlled by the rebel Houthi movement since late 2014

Raghad, who is suffering from cancer, is on a short list of 30 patients set to fly out of Sanaa International Airport as part of this medical air bridge for civilians suffering from conditions that cannot be treated inside Yemen.

A small UN plane carrying the first seven patients left on Monday.

It is a small but significant crack in a more than three-year-long blockade of civilian flights by a Saudi-led coalition backing Yemen's government in its war with the rebel Houthi movement.

If all goes as planned, a series of flights, carrying patients and their caregivers, will leave for Amman and Cairo this month.

Image copyright Reuters Image caption The first seven patients and their carers left Sanaa on a UN plane on Monday

"It's a major breakthrough," said Lise Grande, the UN's resident humanitarian co-ordinator. "It's taken two years of intensive discussions, asking the parties to agree on the modalities."

"It shows that people really do care what happens to Yemenis, they care," she explained when we meet in a heavily guarded UN compound in Sanaa, which is controlled by the Houthis.

It also shows how the littlest and most vulnerable are caught in the poisonous webs spun by a merciless war lurching towards its fifth year.

There are two other international airports in southern Yemen, controlled by the Yemeni government. But they are 15 to 20 hours away from Sanaa on rutted roads winding through mountain passes, threaded by checkpoints of rival fighters.

Image copyright AFP Image caption Monday's flight has been described as a major breakthrough in Yemen's war

Days before the first medical air bridge flight, we were taken to an eerily empty Sanaa International Airport.

Houthi leader Mohammed Ali al-Houthi took to this stage, hoisting himself into the back of a pick-up bristling with AK-47 rifles to artfully seize the moment of a rare visit by a foreign news team.

"We brought you to this airport to show you it was targeted, and is now blocked," he declared.

A World Food Programme plane taxied down the runway - only a handful of aid flights are cleared by the coalition, which controls Yemen's air space.

The wreckage of a civilian aircraft, reportedly destroyed in 2016 by a Saudi air strike, was a sprawl of twisted metal sprawled across the edge of the tarmac.

Inside a deserted departures hall only stray cats padded across the gleaming floor. The upstairs lounge was covered in a layer of fine dust, more than three years thick.

Image caption Mohammed Ali al-Houthi rejected a coalition proposal to route flights via Aden or Saudi Arabia

Over the past year, the coalition proposed a way out: divert flights via Bisha airport in south-western Saudi Arabia or Aden in southern Yemen to allow aircraft to be searched.

"This airport has its own security procedures, which means civilian aircraft cannot carry weapons," asserted Mr Houthi. "There are satellites, and they have their own spies on the ground, so if there's any movement in Sanaa airport, they can prove it with photos."

The coalition proposal would downgrade Sanaa to a local airport. For the men in charge in Sanaa, sovereignty trumps everything, even human lives.

"We are sovereign and independent and won't be a servant to anyone." Mr Houthi added with a flourish as he strode away to continue this warzone tour.

Saudi Arabia's military spokesman, Col Turki al-Malki, has described the "Flights of Mercy" as a "humanitarian initiative".

"It was also a political concession from the Saudis," said a source involved in the lengthy deliberations. "Senior Saudi officials personally intervened to make this happen."

Image copyright NurPhoto via Getty Images Image caption The warring parties have released prisoners as a confidence-building measure

The medical air bridge was given the go-ahead as part of Saudi Arabia's reported shift to de-escalate tensions. That has included holding secret talks with the Houthis, which have been shaken by an upsurge in fighting.

There has also been a frustrating search for countries willing to accept Yemeni patients. Expenses will be borne by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the charity International SOS, but there was worry about families overstaying their welcome.

All the while patients were kept waiting, their conditions getting worse. And the list of patients on a waiting list is said to number more than 30,000.

"When we called families this time to tell them there'd be flights in February, some hung up on us, or angrily informed us the patient had died," a frustrated WHO official told me as she clutched a bulging stack of medical files.

Image caption Abdullah Thawaba said it was very difficult to be a doctor in Sanaa

Even doctors at Yemen's only cancer hospital lost hope there would ever be a flight. They stopped making lists of the most urgent cases.

"Many children are dying because they can't travel abroad," said Dr Abdullah Thawaba, director of the National Oncology Centre. "Every year we receive 700 children and some die because they can't get treated abroad."

At this hospital, even the carers need care.

"It's very, very difficult to be a doctor here," Dr Thawaba admitted. "Sometimes we all feel really depressed because we can't give our patients the treatment they need."

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dr Abdullah Thawaba said Yemen's only cancer hospital cannot give children the treatment they need

Six-year-old Muthea wore a plastic spider man watch on his spindly arm, and there was a tiny teddy bear on the striped woollen beanie shielding his bald head.

But there was nothing fun about his vacant stare.

Muthea's father, perched on his son's bed, also wore sadness like a heavy coat.

"Muthea has stomach cancer and can't sleep at night because of his pain," he said.

They have travelled the long road to Sanaa from a town near the embattled port city of Hudaydah on the Red Sea coast.

"It amounts to a death sentence," said Sultana Begum of the Norwegian Refugee Council, which has campaigned for years on this issue. "The use of a blockade has prevented thousands of sick Yemenis from leaving the country for urgent care, and stopped medicines and equipment from getting in."

Image caption Muthea cannot sleep at night because of his pain

At a sprawling Sanaa cemetery, 17-year-old Awab washed his father's grave and placed fresh flowers on the dull, grey stone.

"My father had cirrhosis of the liver for 13 years," he said. "But then he couldn't find the medicine and his condition got worse and worse."

"For two years, they kept promising he would be on a UN flight," he added bitterly.

Image caption Awab said his father died while awaiting medical evacuation

This medical air bridge is a glimpse of hope in the world's worst humanitarian crisis - a hope so rare, many still fear it won't proceed as planned.Mining coronavirus genomes for clues to the outbreak’s origins
Mining coronavirus genomes for clues to the outbreak’s origins

attaaaggtt tataccttcc caggtaacaa accaaccaac tttcgatctc ttgtagatct …

That string of apparent gibberish is anything but: It’s a snippet of a DNA sequence from the viral pathogen, dubbed 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), that is overwhelming China and frightening the entire world. Scientists are publicly sharing an ever-growing number of full sequences of the virus from patients—53 at last count in the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data database. These viral genomes are being intensely studied to try to understand the origin of 2019-nCoV and how it fits on the family tree of related viruses found in bats and other species. They have also given glimpses into what this newly discovered virus physically looks like, how it’s changing, and how it might be stopped.

“One of the biggest takeaway messages [from the viral sequences] is that there was a single introduction into humans and then human-to-human spread,” says Trevor Bedford, a bioinformatics specialist at the University of Washington and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. The role of Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan, China, in spreading 2019-nCoV remains murky, though such sequencing, combined with sampling the market’s environment for the presence of the virus, is clarifying that it indeed had an important early role in amplifying the outbreak. The viral sequences, most researchers say, also knock down the idea the pathogen came from a virology institute in Wuhan.

In all, 2019-nCoV has nearly 29,000 nucleotides bases that hold the genetic instruction book to produce the virus. Although it’s one of the many viruses whose genes are in the form of RNA, scientists convert the viral genome into DNA, with bases known in shorthand as A, T, C, and G, to make it easier to study. Many analyses of 2019-nCoV’s sequences have already appeared on virological.org, nextstrain.org, preprint servers like bioRxiv, and even in peer-reviewed journals. The sharing of the sequences by Chinese researchers allowed public health labs around the world to develop their own diagnostics for the virus, which now has been found in 18 other countries. (Science's news stories on the outbreak can be found here.)

When the first 2019-nCoV sequence became available, researchers placed it on a family tree of known coronaviruses—which are abundant and infect many species—and found that it was most closely related to relatives found in bats. A team led by Shi Zheng-Li, a coronavirus specialist at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, reported on 23 January on bioRxiv that 2019-nCoV’s sequence was 96.2% similar to a bat virus and had 79.5% similarity to the coronavirus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), a disease whose initial outbreak was also in China more than 15 years ago. But the SARS coronavirus has a similarly close relationship to bat viruses, and sequence data make a powerful case that it jumped into people from a coronavirus in civets that differed from human SARS viruses by as few as 10 nucleotides. That’s one reason why many scientists suspect there’s an “intermediary” host species—or several—between bats and 2019-nCoV.

According to Bedford’s analysis, the bat coronavirus sequence that Shi Zheng-Li’s team highlighted, dubbed RaTG13, differs from 2019-nCoV by nearly 1100 nucleotides. On nextstrain.org, a site he co-founded, Bedford has created coronavirus family trees (example below) that include bat, civet, SARS, and 2019-nCoV sequences. (The trees are interactive—by dragging a computer mouse over them, it’s easy to see the differences and similarities between the sequences.)

Bedford’s analyses of RaTG13 and 2019-nCoV suggest that the two viruses shared a common ancestor 25 to 65 years ago, an estimate he arrived at by combining the difference in nucleotides between the viruses with the presumed rates of mutation in other coronaviruses. So it likely took decades for RaTG13-like viruses to mutate into 2019-nCoV.

Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), another human disease caused by a coronavirus, similarly has a link to bat viruses. But studies have built a compelling case it jumped to humans from camels. And the phylogenetic tree from Shi’s bioRxiv paper (below) makes the camel-MERS link easy to see.

The longer a virus circulates in a human populations, the more time it has to develop mutations that differentiate strains in infected people, and given that the 2019-nCoV sequences analyzed to date differ from each other by seven nucleotides at most, this suggests it jumped into humans very recently. But it remains a mystery which animal spread the virus to humans. “There’s a very large gray area between viruses detected in bats and the virus now isolated in humans,” says Vincent Munster, a virologist at the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases who studies coronaviruses in bats, camels, and others species.

Strong evidence suggests the marketplace played an early role in spreading 2019-nCoV, but whether it was the origin of the outbreak remains uncertain. Many of the initially confirmed 2019-nCoV cases—27 of the first 41 in one report, 26 of 47 in another—were connected to the Wuhan market, but up to 45%, including the earliest handful, were not. This raises the possibility that the initial jump into people happened elsewhere.

According to Xinhua, the state-run news agency, “environmental sampling” of the Wuhan seafood market has found evidence of 2019-nCoV. Of the 585 samples tested, 33 were positive for 2019-nCoV and all were in the huge market’s western portion, which is where wildlife were sold. “The positive tests from the wet market are hugely important,” says Edward Holmes, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Sydney who collaborated with the first group to publicly release a 2019-nCoV sequence. “Such a high rate of positive tests would strongly imply that animals in the market played a key role in the emergence of the virus.”

Yet there have been no preprints or official scientific reports on the sampling, so it’s not clear which, if any, animals tested positive. “Until you consistently isolate the virus out of a single species, it’s really, really difficult to try and determine what the natural host is,” says Kristian Andersen, an evolutionary biologist at Scripps Research.

One possible explanation for the confusion about where the virus first entered humans is if there was a batch of recently infected animals sold at different marketplaces. Or an infected animal trader could have transmitted the virus to different people at different markets. Or, Bedford suggests, those early cases could have been infected by viruses that didn’t easily transmit and sputtered out. “It would be hugely helpful to have just a sequence or two from the marketplace [environmental sampling] that could illuminate how many zoonoses occurred and when they occurred,” Bedford says.

In the absence of clear conclusions about the outbreak’s origin, theories thrive, and some have been scientifically shaky. A sequence analysis led by Wei Ji of Peking University and published online by the Journal of Medical Virology received substantial press coverage when it suggested that “snake is the most probable wildlife animal reservoir for the 2019‐nCoV.” Sequence specialists, however, pilloried it.

Conspiracy theories also abound. A CBC News report about the Canadian government deporting Chinese scientists who worked in a Winnipeg lab that studies dangerous pathogens was distorted on social media to suggest that they were spies who had smuggled out coronaviruses. The Wuhan Institute of Virology, which is the premier lab in China that studies bat and human coronaviruses, has also come under fire. “Experts debunk fringe theory linking China’s coronavirus to weapons research,” read a headline on a story in The Washington Post that focused on the facility.

Concerns about the institute predate this outbreak. Nature ran a story in 2017 about it building a new biosafety level 4 lab and included molecular biologist Richard Ebright of Rutgers University, Piscataway, expressing concerns about accidental infections, which he noted repeatedly happened with lab workers handling SARS in Beijing. Ebright, who has a long history of raising red flags about studies with dangerous pathogens, also in 2015 criticized an experiment in which modifications were made to a SARS-like virus circulating in Chinese bats to see whether it had the potential to cause disease in humans. Earlier this week, Ebright questioned the accuracy of Bedford’s calculation that there are at least 25 years of evolutionary distance between RaTG13—the virus held in the Wuhan virology institute—and 2019-nCoV, arguing that the mutation rate may have been different as it passed through different hosts before humans. Ebright tells Science Insider that the 2019-nCoV data are “consistent with entry into the human population as either a natural accident or a laboratory accident.”

Shi did not reply to emails from Science , but her longtime collaborator, disease ecologist Peter Daszak of the EcoHealth Alliance, dismissed Ebright’s conjecture. “Every time there’s an emerging disease, a new virus, the same story comes out: This is a spillover or the release of an agent or a bioengineered virus,” Daszak says. “It’s just a shame. It seems humans can’t resist controversy and these myths, yet it’s staring us right in the face. There’s this incredible diversity of viruses in wildlife and we’ve just scratched the surface. Within that diversity, there will be some that can infect people and within that group will be some that cause illness.”

Daszak and Shi’s group have for 8 years been trapping bats in caves around China to sample their feces and blood for viruses. He says they have sampled more than 10,000 bats and 2000 other species. They have found some 500 novel coronaviruses, about 50 of which fall relatively close to the SARS virus on the family tree, including RaTG13—it was fished out of a bat fecal sample they collected in 2013 from a cave in Moglang in Yunnan province. “We cannot assume that just because this virus from Yunnan has high sequence identity with the new one that that’s the origin,” Daszak says, noting that only a tiny fraction of coronaviruses that infect bats have been discovered. “I expect that once we’ve sampled and sampled and sampled across southern China and central China that we’re going to find many other viruses and some of them will be closer [to 2019-nCoV].”

It’s not just a “curious interest” to figure out what sparked the current outbreak, Daszak says. “If we don't find the origin, it could still be a raging infection at a farm somewhere, and once this outbreak dies, there could be a continued spillover that’s really hard to stop. But the jury is still out on what the real origins of this are.”Spider biologist denies suspicions of widespread data fraud in his animal personality research
Spider biologist denies suspicions of widespread data fraud in his animal personality research

It’s been a bad couple of weeks for behavioral ecologist Jonathan Pruitt—the holder of one of the prestigious Canada 150 Research Chairs—and it may get a lot worse. What began with questions about data in one of Pruitt’s papers has flared into a social media–fueled scandal in the small field of animal personality research, with dozens of papers on spiders and other invertebrates being scrutinized by scores of students, postdocs, and other co-authors for problematic data.

Already, two papers co-authored by Pruitt, now at McMaster University, have been retracted for data anomalies; Biology Letters is expected to expunge a third within days. And the more Pruitt’s co-authors look, the more potential data problems they find. All papers using data collected or curated by Pruitt, a highly productive researcher who specialized in social spiders, are coming under scrutiny and those in his field predict there will be many retractions. The furor has even earned a Twitter hashtag—#PruittData.

Yet even one of the researchers who initially probed Pruitt’s data cautions that what has happened remains unclear. “There is no hard evidence that [Pruitt’s] data are fabricated,” says behavioral ecologists Niels Dingemanse of Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU).

As for Pruitt, he’s in the middle of 4 months of fieldwork in Australia and the South Pacific and insists there has been no data fabrication or fraud, saying the data issues are all mistakes. “These errors are not unheard of in data management,” he told Science Insider in a phone call on Thursday night U.S. time, his first interview since the retractions. Nonetheless, “If a scientist can’t be careful, that’s as big an indictment as someone who goes around and adjusts data. … I appreciate the amount of time people have spent to navigate this situation fairly.”

But Pruiit's excuse doesn’t wash for Daniel Bolnick, editor-in-chief of The American Naturalist, given what he says is being discovered in raw data files. “Pruitt’s explanation strikes me as ludicrously blasé about the extent of the concerns,” he says. “The extent of the problems is hard to reconcile with accidents.

A McMaster University spokesperson said the university is “aware of allegations regarding Jonathan Pruitt” but declined further comment on the matter. A University of California Santa Barbara spokesperson also says the school is aware of the allegations regarding Pruitt, who left a faculty position there in October 2018 for Canada. "While we cannot discuss specific cases, maintaining the highest degree of integrity in all research endeavors is essential to our mission. We have robust procedures on our campus to address instances of research misconduct, and we would cooperate with any other institution conducting an investigation," she noted in an email.

As divisive as retractions can be, behavioral ecologists are hoping to control the damage to their field’s reputation by being open about their investigations, detailing them on blogs and social media. “It might taint the field, but it’s something we will just have to weather,” says Leigh Simmons, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Western Australia. Even outsiders to the field are taking notice of the attempt at transparency. “It is very, very hard to prevent fraud (if that is what happened here) but [the response] should be a model for responding to it,” Seth Finnegan, a paleobiologist at the University of California (UC), Berkeley, tweeted.

Although some researchers have tweeted that the affair reflects the lack of scientific rigor in animal behavioral studies—and in particular, the documentation of animal personalities, Pruitt’s colleagues summarily reject that. “It’s a gross overstatement to say this is now the death of the field,” Dingemanse says.

Last year, a young researcher not in Pruitt’s lab came to behavioral ecologist Tom Tregenza of the University of Exeter with questions about a paper in The American Naturalist co-authored by Pruitt on how animal social interactions strengthen personalities and can help a population survive, using social spiders as a test case. Tregenza recruited Dingemanse and two other colleagues to probe the paper’s data. They ran simulations of the experiments to see whether they could explain how the data might be generated naturally. They could not. “We were simply finding there were too many replicates of the same data points,” Dingemanse says.

He then approached Pruitt’s co-author, Kate Laskowski, a behavioral ecologist at UC Davis, and Bolnick. Laskowski, too, scrutinized the work and found more questionable data, first in that paper and then in two other papers she’d co-authored with Pruitt; he had been the sole source of the animal data for analyses of how social interactions strengthen animal personalities and affect a group’s survival.

Pruitt, who conducted research in the United States funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) for almost 10 years before Canada lured him with a grant of $350,000 annually for 7 years, offered Laskowski and Bolnick several explanations for these anomalies, they say, but ultimately agreed to a retraction of the initial paper, which was announced on 17 January. A few days later, Laskowski tweeted her dismay that other papers she had done with Pruitt were about to face the same fate. “I am not excited to say that there were similar problems in the raw data of another of my papers—this paper is now retracted, too.”

After that first retraction, Bolnick, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Connecticut, Storrs, received dozens of emails, some anonymous, expressing concerns about other papers involving Pruitt. He forwarded those emails to the research integrity office at McMaster and alerted other journals. This week on his blog Eco-Evo, Evo-Eco, he explained his involvement to date and announced the creation of a Google document compiling Pruitt papers being looked at, with details about how the data were collected and now, being newly analyzed. “I’m very concerned that people collaborating with him will be tarred with the same brush,” Bolnick says. “There are definitely papers out there [co-authored by Pruitt] where other people collected the data and I consider those papers to be sound and trustworthy.”

Noa Pinter-Wollman, a behavioral ecologist at UC Los Angeles, is among those suddenly reevaluating her work with Pruitt. Interested in animal interactions and network analysis, she teamed up with Pruitt 5 years ago. He became “a close collaborator and a trusted friend,” she says, and together they’ve published almost 20 papers. Pruitt alerted her to the first retraction 2 weeks ago and she’s been scrambling since then to deal with the news. She’s confident of her and her students’ work and has assurances from others in Pruitt’s lab that their data are sound, “so we are focusing on data collected and curated by Jonathan,” she says. That involves writing computer programs to ferret out data irregularities such as duplicated information or certain sequences of numbers that don’t have the expected randomness. “This is the type of forensics that I never imagined I would have to do,” she says. Already, she’s found three papers she wants to retract and is investigating three more.

She is a cosigner on a public statement released 29 January by Ambika Kamath, a behavioral ecologist at UC Berkeley and former Pruitt postdoc, and Pruitt lab members and collaborators promising to get to the bottom of these problems. “We are working as a community to create a resource about which papers are reliable,” Pinter-Wollman says. “But it’s a tragedy for me. I lost a trusted collaborator.”

I hope that it all turns out that he’s been careless. But if he has falsified data, then he has to pay the price. Susan Riechert, University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Many people are grieving. “I’m devastated,” says Pruitt’s former graduate school adviser, Susan Riechert, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville; suspicions have also been raised about Pruitt’s Ph.D. thesis on spiders. Outgoing and energetic, Pruitt is considered smart, creative, and collaborative. “He’s very sharing of his work with other people and [with] credits,” Riechert says.

Behavioral ecologists often struggle to get funding for their fieldwork, but Pruitt has been well supported. Since 2014, he has held three grants from NSF, totaling $600,000 and he also has some funding from the U.S. National Institutes of Health. Canada’s selection of him for one of its endowed chairs created for the country’s 150th anniversary seemed to cement him as a young superstar in the field.

Pruitt says he is puzzled by what’s happening. After the initial retraction came out, he tells Science Insider, “Each morning when I woke up, there was a different anonymous email taking issue with a different dataset and a different paper. … Do they think I was just copying and pasting a spreadsheet? I don’t think I would do that.”

At first, he was in the fray tweeting—but no longer. “There are so many voices and they are so loud and diverse, there’s no way to address it.” Instead, he says he’s focusing on his fieldwork, setting insect traps across the South Pacific before and after cyclones hit to learn how different species are affected by these tremendous storms. Last year, he reported on work in which he collected data on spiders before and after a U.S. hurricane. It’s one of the papers now being scrutinized.

Pruitt says he has no expectations that he will be able to continue in behavioral ecology, saying he knows he has lost the trust of his colleagues about his data. But these cyclone data will be useful no matter what happens, he says. “If I’m on fire and my longevity is [short], I will bequeath them to another researcher.” He is concerned, however, that as each retraction happens, even innocuous mistakes in his data or experiments will be cause for more retractions. It’s a worry that Dingemanse shares. Such careful inspection of data will often turn up something, no matter how well collected and compiled, he says. “If you looked at my data [this way], you might also come up with causes for concern,” Dingemanse says.

According to Bolnick, 23 journals are investigating Pruitt’s papers. And the community is feeling its way through the trouble. “Nothing like this has ever happened in our discipline,” says Simmons, who is editor-in-chief of Behavioral Ecology .

Simmons has spent the past 3 days poring over the 11 papers Pruitt has written for his journal, going back to a data repository now mandated by his journal and others to check raw data. Yet he laments that the initial hashtag—#Pruittgate—is too damming and thinks “we need to, as much as we can, avoid a witch hunt.”

Still, even Pruitt’s staunchest supporters want to see the situation resolved. “I hope that it all turns out that he’s been careless,” Riechert says. “But if he has falsified data, then he has to pay the price.”

With reporting by Erik Stokstad.

*Update, 3 February, 9:30 a.m.: This story has been changed to more accurately reflect how concerns about Pruitt's data were first brought to the attention of Dingemanse and his colleagues. An additional quote by Bolnick reacting to the Pruitt interview has also been added.Top stories: Doggerland’s ‘lost world,’ star-swallowing black holes, and engineering killer moths
Top stories: Doggerland’s ‘lost world,’ star-swallowing black holes, and engineering killer moths

Lost world revealed by human, Neanderthal relics washed up on North Sea beaches

Fifty thousand years ago, a rich territory named Doggerland stretched all the way from Great Britain to the Netherlands, under what is now the North Sea. But as glaciers melted 8500 years ago, that land was lost—as was evidence of the Neanderthals, modern humans, and other hominin species that occupied it. Now, thanks to a €70 million coastal protection project to shield the Dutch coast from sea-level rise, soil from the Stone Age is once again accessible—and it’s turning up ancient artifacts, from a woolly mammoth tooth to the bones and tools of ancient Europeans.

Black holes caught in the act of swallowing stars

At the center of nearly every galaxy lies a monster, a giant black hole millions or even billions of times heavier than the Sun. Most are dormant, lurking invisibly for thousands of years—until a star passes too close and is ripped to shreds. That triggers a monthslong tidal disruption event (TDE), which can shine as brightly as a supernova. Until a few years ago, astronomers had spotted only a handful of TDEs. But now, a new generation of wide-field surveys is catching more of them soon after they start—yielding new insights into the violent events and the hidden population of black holes that drives them.

Genetically engineered moths can knock down crop pests, but will they take off?

Diamondback moths love broccoli. They’re also fond of cabbage, cauliflower, and related crops. And they quickly evolve resistance to insecticides and crops genetically modified to kill them. But frustrated farmers might get a new weapon against them: genetically engineered versions of the moths that mate with wild pests and cause half their offspring to die.

Outbreak of virus from China declared global emergency

In a move that some critics say should have happened 1 week ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus in China a global health emergency. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the move at a press conference on Thursday evening in Geneva. The new disease, first made public by China on 31 December 2019, has already spread to 18 countries; 7834 people have been infected and 170 of them, all in China, have died.

Underwater robot reveals hidden base of Antarctica’s ‘doomsday’ glacier

Using a robot dropped through a 700-meter hole in the ice, scientists stationed on Antarctica’s Thwaites Glacier have captured the first video of the glacier’s grounding line, the mysterious boundary where ice meets land and where warm ocean water could be slowly melting the glacier’s base—putting it at risk of collapse.Orangutans Are Hanging On in the Same Palm Oil Plantations That Displace Them
From a low-flying helicopter, conservationist Marc Ancrenaz peered down at the homogeneous rows of trees in a Borneo palm oil plantation and spotted something that made his heart sink: an orangutan nest. Until that moment 15 years ago, he had never seen one so out of place, away from its traditional rain forest habitat. “I thought, at this time, that these animals were doomed,” because it would be difficult for them to find sufficient food in such a setting, says Ancrenaz, who is scientific director for the France-based orangutan-conservation group Hutan.

But as he continued to encounter orangutan nests in plantations over the years, Ancrenaz realized that the animals were, in some cases, thriving and even successfully reproducing in these areas. “It was really a surprise to us,” he says. Ancrenaz and his colleagues now suggest that the very palm oil plantations that are famously eating away at the apes’ forest habitat across Borneo—a large island divided between Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei—could somewhat perversely provide a stopgap for a species that has dropped precipitously from more than 240,000 individuals in 1999 to just 100,000 today, according to research published in 2018 in Current Biology.

In a new paper published in Biodiversitas, the team argues that instead of undertaking “rescue” operations—in which orangutans found on plantation and agricultural land are physically relocated to ever dwindling fragments of pristine Bornean forest—conservationists should try to bolster the animals’ survival where they are. Not everyone who works in orangutan conservation agrees, though, and there are hurdles to overcome—particularly, minimizing conflict with humans.

Though there is little data on the relocated orangutans’ long-term survival, the new study paints a bleak picture: “Some reports from long term release sites suggest that medium to long term survival rates for reintroduced orangutans may be lower than 20%,” the authors write. Reasons for those rates could include the relocated animals engaging in fights with other orangutans nearby or experiencing difficulties adapting to a sudden change in surroundings—for example, the apes having to discover new locations of fruit trees and other food sources.

Remains of palm fruit eaten by an orangutan. Credit: HUTAN KOCP

Supporting orangutans already in plantations, through measures such as ensuring they have access to nearby forest and food resources, might help. There is, however, still much work to do in understanding how orangutans fare outside of their ideal habitat. Some of it has already begun: Cheryl Knott, an anthropologist at Boston University and founder of the Borneo-based Gunung Palung Orangutan Project, who was not involved with the new paper, is studying how living in logged forests and other altered environments affects primates’ diets, overall health and behavior.

Ancrenaz and his colleagues acknowledge that relocations are unavoidable in some situations, such as when an orangutan is clearly unable to support itself in a plantation or when it has been captured and kept in a cage. And not everyone agrees that the relocations that are being undertaken are unnecessary or harmful to the animals. “There’s no NGO that’s going out and rescuing orangutans for the sake of rescuing them,” says Ashley Leiman, founder and director of the Orangutan Foundation, which occasionally carries out relocations in Borneo, and who was also not part of Ancrenaz and his colleagues’ work.

If orangutans that take up residence in plantations and near farms are to be left there, conservationists will need to overcome the fact that many people in Borneo view these primates as pests that eat crops and chew on oil palm shoots. “They don’t see the orangutans as special,” says Liana Chua, an anthropologist at Brunel University London, who has researched local attitudes toward orangutans but was not involved in the new study. Although it is illegal to kill an orangutan or keep one captive in Borneo, those laws are poorly enforced and do not stop human residents from taking revenge when they feel an animal has damaged their property, Chua says.

One way to ease such tensions could be to compensate farmers for orangutan-inflicted destruction, says study co-author Serge Wich, a conservation biologist at Liverpool John Moores University in England. Additionally, palm oil companies could be urged to tolerate the presence of orangutans if there were enough consumers willing to pay more for their products than ones from producers who do not prioritize orangutan conservation. Similar approaches have been tried in Africa, with low success because of corruption. But Chua and some other researchers think compensation programs could work in Borneo if there were clear guidelines defining who is responsible for making payments and under what circumstances. She says listening to local residents and offering sensible reimbursement could help to change mindsets because it would acknowledge communities’ own needs. “That’s what communities really want,” Chua says, “that respect and acknowledgement.”

Ancrenaz suggests another strategy: putting physical barriers around village crops by, for example, organizing regular patrols or strategically constructing drainage canals (orangutans cannot swim). Similar methods have been tried with other species in places including Sri Lanka, where electric fences were erected to keep elephants at bay. In one village that tried the technique, elephants have been successfully deterred for six years running. None have been killed during that time.

Chua proposes that awareness campaigns could recruit popular local celebrities to spread the word via social media that orangutans are an important species. A similar campaign launched by the U.K.-based conservation group International Animal Rescue, aimed at curbing the trend of keeping slow lorises as pets in Southeast Asia, got 800,000 people to sign an online pledge not to support the illegal pet trade, according to a spokesperson. Some owners even contacted the organization to surrender the animals after seeing the campaign video.

Whatever strategies are deployed, given that orangutans continue to be forced out of the forest, it is clear that conservationists—as well as the people of Borneo—will have to adjust their thinking, Chua says. She thinks doing so is possible—“but it’s going to be tough,” she adds.Home Star Stunner: Best Ever Images of Solar Surface Herald New Era
Why is the sun’s outer atmosphere so much hotter than its surface? What drives its 11-year cycle of magnetic activity? And how does its solar wind propagate out into the solar system? Scientists hope to answer all these questions and more in the coming decade, thanks to an armada of new missions that will scrutinize the sun in more detail than ever before. With the debut of two unprecedented spacecraft and the largest ground-based solar observatory ever built, research into our home star is set to reach new heights.

One of the two spacecraft has already launched: NASA’s Parker Solar Probe, which soared skyward on August 12, 2018. Designed to approach our star within just 4 percent of the Earth-sun distance, or 0.04 astronomical units (AU), it is the closest mission ever sent to our star. The other craft, the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Solar Orbiter mission, is scheduled to lift off from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on February 7. Although projected to only reach 0.28 AU, this mission will capture some of the most detailed images of the sun ever seen, including the first pictures of its poles. And today scientists released inaugural images from the four-meter Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope (DKIST) on Maui in Hawaii. Run by the National Science Foundation in the U.S., these are the most detailed images ever taken of the solar surface.

“It’s extremely exciting to be a solar physicist at this point in time, with all of these missions,” says Thomas Rimmele, an astronomer and project director of DKIST at the National Solar Observatory. “With just the first images [from DKIST], you see detail that we’ve never seen before. And this is really just the beginning.”

DKIST’s five instruments are designed to both image the sun and probe its magnetic field, allowing scientists to discern the field’s strength and orientation. Scientists hope to use these data to help resolve the long-standing mystery of why the sun’s corona—its halolike outer atmosphere—is up to millions of degrees hotter than its surface. Data from DKIST will also allow researchers to probe the magnetic fields of the vast structures that arc and loop between these two regions.

Complementing DKIST are the aforementioned Parker Solar Probe and Solar Orbiter. By repeatedly flying close to the sun over the next five years at record-setting speeds of nearly 700,000 kilometers per hour, the former will be able to measure pristine material ejected from our star, and it is already providing invaluable data from its early passes. “Parker Solar Probe is showing us signatures of the solar wind and the plasma in the corona that we’ve never seen before in previous missions,” says Nour Raouafi, project scientist for the probe at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory.

Meanwhile the Solar Orbiter has the capability to directly image the sun from its close-up vantage point—something the Parker Solar Probe lacks. Poking through small holes in the spacecraft’s titanium heat shield, cameras will provide the closest images of the sun ever taken. Beyond the delivery of such stunning snapshots, scientists are already excited about other insights this mission might reveal, such as how our star launches flares and coronal mass ejections—“space weather” events that can severely disrupt global power grids and telecommunications. “The main problem with space weather at the moment is [we have] a 12-hour warning at most,” says Stephanie Yardley, a solar physicist at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. “If we [know] the evolution of the magnetic field of the sun and the solar atmosphere, we can gain some insight into how these eruptions are actually formed. It’s currently very difficult [to predict them].”

The Solar Orbiter has one more trick up its sleeve, too. It will use repeated encounters with Venus to gradually raise the inclination of its orbit, eventually reaching 33 degrees above the plane of the planets if, as hoped, the mission is extended beyond its initial seven years. Doing so will enable it to orbit the sun at a high angle, capturing images of the sun’s poles. “We’re hoping to see how the magnetic field on the surface migrates toward the poles and eventually influences the ‘flip’ of the sun’s poles [every 11 years],” Yardley says.

Numerous sun-observing spacecraft have been launched before but without the advanced capabilities of these new missions. ESA and NASA’s widely regarded and still operational Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) launched in 1995, but it only sits at a distant 0.99 AU from the sun. The German-U.S. Helios probes in the 1970s, meanwhile, set the previous record for the closest approach to the sun of 0.29 AU, yet they have since been eclipsed by the Parker Solar Probe. And ESA and NASA’s Ulysses spacecraft used a gravitational assist from Jupiter to fly over the sun’s poles in the mid-1990s and early 2000s, but it did so without cameras to image what they looked like.

Together, Raouafi says, these new missions herald an upcoming “golden age” of solar studies. “They have the potential to define the future direction of solar and heliophysics research,” he says. And Gregory Fleishman of the New Jersey Institute of Technology hopes they might inspire even more projects in the near future. He is currently part of a team seeking funding for a new large solar radio telescope after having just used a more modest array to probe eruptions of magnetic fields on the sun. “The golden age would mean the measurements are [across] all wavelengths,” Fleishman says. “One important range is entirely missing: the radio range, which is unique because it’s the only window where we can measure the dynamic coronal magnetic fields.”

For scientists that have longed to answer some of the sun’s most intriguing questions, however, there has never been a better time to unearth its secrets. With the Parker Solar Probe expected to study the sun until 2025, the Solar Orbiter lasting until 2030 if its mission is extended, and DKIST potentially observing for decades to come, solar physicists such as Yardley are thrilled at what the future holds for our understanding. “We’re going to have these three different [missions] to provide us with all these different observations, the likes of which we’ve never had before,” she says. “Hopefully [they] can answer some of these big unanswered questions we have in solar physics at the moment.”What the Iowa Caucus means for getting Iowa online
If you need to get online in Winterset, Iowa (population 5,200), you head to the library. Free Wi-Fi has been in place for a while, but starting this week, the library is lending out ten Sprint mobile hotspots in hardshell cases, prepped for students and residents who can’t count on connectivity otherwise.

It’s one of the many creative ways local leaders in Winterset have worked to ensure every person in their community has reasonable access to the internet. Kids who live out in the country still go to school in Winterset, and often submit their homework online as part of the district’s one-to-one Chromebook deal. But with only choppy wireless or satellite signals, it’s hard for country kids to hand in their assignments from home.

“Folks in big cities don’t understand that it’s really different here,” says Jean Bosch, director of the Winterset Public Library. “We just don’t have the same access, and it’s not okay.”

Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America

The problem is much bigger than Winterset. In 2016, the FCC estimated more than 24 million Americans lack access to broadband, and even that was probably an underestimate. Two years later, Microsoft ran its own study and found the FCC had vastly underestimated, determining that close to 163 million people were being left out of the push for the faster web. It’s particularly a problem for rural communities, which are ten times more likely to lack broadband access.

In Iowa, it’s been this way for years. According to the commission’s most recent study, only 77 percent of rural Iowans had access to high-speed fixed broadband (25 Mbps down and three up, per FCC standards). That’s only a 17 percent increase over the past five years. Nearly all homes in the urban areas of the state have access to high-speed internet, but rural areas have been slow to catch up, largely because of the sheer expense of connecting them.

“If we had the ability to serve sparsely populated areas with a decent return on investment, we would have all been hooked up already,” Dave Duncan, CEO of the Iowa Communications Alliance, tells The Verge. In some rural communities, Duncan says, a telecom could lay a mile of fiber or coaxial cable and only be able to connect one home.

The traditional telecoms haven’t gotten the rural residents of Winterset online — and what’s left is a patchwork of grants and public programs that can be hard to predict and harder to sustain. And while the Iowa Caucus has brought massive political attention to the small state, little of that attention has gone to the state’s networks. Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America, but it’s still a secondary issue for the candidates, raising uncomfortable questions about how long towns like Winterset may have to wait to join the rest of the country online.

Nine days before the caucuses, people were lined up in eighteen-degree weather outside the Ames City Auditorium to see Sanders with Michael Moore, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and the band Portugal, the Man. For the Sanders supporters, the biggest applause lines were about health care.

“If you are tired of student debt, if you are sick and tired and scared of climate change, if you are disgusted with racism and sexism and homophobia and xenophobia, if you believe that health care is a human right, you can’t sit it out,” Sanders told a crowd of hundreds.

At rallies and town halls across the state this past week, health care, climate change, and education were the top concerns, no matter which candidate was on stage. That’s in line with Gallup polling, which shows infrastructure as thirteenth behind more common concerns like health care, education and economic policy. But the simple question of internet access sits in the background of many of those issues.

Alisha Jenecke, a red-haired home-care worker from West Des Moines, says the main issue that brought her to the Sanders rally was health care. But in her work providing that care, she feels the impact of spotty internet almost every day.

“If my signal is gone, I can’t do my job. I had an internet black hole yesterday in someone’s apartment in the middle of downtown Des Moines,” Jenecke tells The Verge. “It’s super annoying to have to write everything down and then go in later and open up the document and put everything back in later. It’s extra work.”

In more rural areas outside Des Moines, connectivity is an even bigger problem. Jeremy Mostek, the founder of Pyro’s Pride fireworks store in Mitchell, Iowa, has trouble watching videos displaying any new products from his Chinese suppliers before he purchases them and sells them to customers. Some folks in Mitchell never bothered making Facebook or Netflix accounts at all because of a lack of access.

Back in Winterset, a few years ago, the Winterset Public School District put stickers up on local businesses signifying that they were a safe place for students to do their homework if they didn’t have access at home. If the businesses are closed, students sit in their cars outside of restaurants to upload their assignments.

In some ways, it’s the perfect problem for big government to solve. The FCC is already tasked with overseeing America’s network, and the commission already operates a range of programs aimed at bringing the internet to underserved areas. But for whatever reason, those programs haven’t reached places like Winterset.

Part of the problem is information. The FCC’s coverage maps rely on self-reporting from telecoms, which often means exaggerated coverage on the official maps. The maps also don’t take into account the quality of the connection, whether it’s through satellite, fixed wireless, coaxial cable, or fiber. An entire community in one county could be listed as having wireless or satellite high-speed internet access, but if they’re in a valley where the beams don’t reach, that access won’t be very useful.

These shoddy maps have enraged both Republicans and Democrats in Congress. “The current maps used to allocate resources are woefully inaccurate and result in overbuilding in some areas while other areas remain unserved or underserved,” Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH) wrote in The Hill on Thursday. Just last month, the House Energy and Commerce Committee — of which Latta is a member — overwhelmingly approved a bill that would make it illegal for telecoms to “willfully, knowingly, or recklessly submit inaccurate broadband service data.” The bill is still waiting for a vote on the floor and in the Senate.

Josh Byrnes, the general manager of Osage Municipal Utilities, has spent the last four years trying to fix his area’s connectivity problem.

Osage, Iowa, is a town of around 3,500 people, only two dozen miles south of the Minnesota border. It’s one of the few municipalities in all of Iowa that has its own public gas, electricity, and telecommunications services. Byrnes knows everyone in Osage and the surrounding areas, giving two-fingered waves as he rolls through the neighborhood in his white Ford.

Osage now has broadband but Mitchell, only a five-minute drive north, is one of those communities that is going without. But after months of work by Byrnes and nearly $400,000, the small village will soon be hooked up.

Surprisingly, the money is not coming from the FCC, but from the Department of Agriculture. Earlier this January, the USDA announced Osage would receive a $397,749 grant through the department’s Reconnect program to run fiber to Mitchell. Byrnes applied for that grant after spending countless hours knocking on his neighbors’ doors, getting to know their needs and families, and discovering that Osage didn’t have the resources it needed to expand into their area all on its own.

“If I hadn’t got that USDA grant, there was nobody that was coming to give those people internet. It was never going to happen,” Byrnes says. “When I submitted that grant, I said, I’m gonna cry either way. I’m gonna cry if I get it, and I’m gonna cry if I don’t get it.”

Starting this spring, Osage Municipal Utilities will start putting that money to good use, supplying broadband to farms, businesses, and households in the underserved areas of Mitchell County. Byrnes calls it a “game changer” for the village and its businesses.

One of Mitchell’s businesses, the Art of Education, was founded by Jessica and Derek Balsley in 2011. After several years working as an art teacher in Iowa, Jessica Balsley scouted around the country for a masters program focused on art education, but she came up short. So she and her husband got to work creating their own accredited university, built entirely online. But living in Mitchell made that already difficult task almost impossible, thanks to Verizon HomeFusion.

“You couldn’t have your video meetings. You couldn’t sync terabytes of data,” Derek Balsley says. So the Balsleys were forced to uproot their business from Mitchell and bring it to Osage.

“We’d love to have a beautiful university building in a rural setting like Mitchell, but the problem is that you just can’t have the connectivity and the high-speed access to make it happen,” Derek Balsley tells The Verge. “For anybody who is interested in saving our rural areas, there is probably nothing more important that would allow these rural areas to thrive like they used to except the internet.”

This isn’t the first time politicians have made big promises about rural broadband. As part of his 2016 campaign, Donald Trump promised a trillion-dollar infrastructure package that would, in part, fund broadband build-outs in small towns like Osage, Mitchell, and Winterset. But after half a dozen false starts, that infrastructure deal ended up taking a back seat to tax cuts, the abortive Obamacare repeal effort, and the ongoing immigration fight. If any families like the Balsleys had counted on Trump’s infrastructure package, they’re still waiting.

The biggest progress made during the past four years has come from FCC chairman Ajit Pai. In a meeting last Thursday, the FCC voted to approve a program called the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund to succeed its Connect America Fund that came before it. RDOF creates a pot of more than $20 billion for cooperatives, satellite operators, and other telecoms to compete for in order to support broadband projects in unserved areas across the country.

But the rebranded broadband program hasn’t won everyone over. Commissioner Geoffrey Starks, one of the two Democratic FCC commissioners, dissented to the RDOF order, saying the current version excludes “any area that the Commission ‘know[s] to be awarded funding through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s ReConnect Program or other similar federal or state broadband subsidy programs, or those subject to enforceable broadband deployment obligations.” At Thursday’s meeting, Chairman Ajit Pai said RDOF would ban big companies that already have buildout goals they promised to meet but never did, but the uncertainty puts smaller telecoms like Osage in a difficult spot.

At the rallies and town halls, Democrats are promising that things will be different when they’re in charge, and most of what they’re promising is money. Joe Biden has pledged to invest $20 billion into rural broadband, if elected. Pete Buttigieg is offering $80 billion, with a promise to fund locally owned networks where their big telecoms fall short. Sanders has pledged as much as $150 billion, as part of his Green New Deal plan, that would flow to “publicly owned and democratically controlled, co-operative, or open access broadband networks.” But like any campaign promise, it’s not clear how much of that money will get through Congress, and there’s a growing anxiety among experts that money alone isn’t enough.

“You can’t just throw money at this”

“You can’t just throw money at this,” Harold Feld, senior vice president at Public Knowledge, tells The Verge. “We’re now having huge scandals about companies like Frontier and Centurylink that took the money but didn’t provide the service.”

Some plans would go further than just money. Proposals from Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders would preempt any state laws that ban local communities from building their own municipal and public networks. The plans would also send their money ($85 billion and $150 billion respectively) directly to electricity and telephone cooperatives, nonprofits, tribes, local governments, and municipal networks like Osage.

There are already programs like Lifeline that put money directly into the hands of consumers. This approach makes the customers more valuable to carriers because they’re able to pay for more access than they were before — and in theory, lets them hold the companies accountable for the speeds low-income Americans receive. But smaller cooperatives like Osage say they know their communities far better than Verizon and AT&T.

“Verizon is accountable to its shareholders,” Feld says. “It’s better if you get someone who’s in the community, because they’re doing this because they know the people.”

And 5G, the technology many believe will reshape how rural communities access the internet, doesn’t change the economics. Wireless towers are still hooked up to the rest of the internet through high-capacity cables and wires. In areas like Mitchell, homes can be miles apart, some on top of hills, some deep in valleys, and this landscape dramatically affects their connectivity. If wireless is unavailable to them, they often opt for satellite services like Windstream and HughesNet that can be choppy and not live up to the speeds the companies promise.

“My concern is that we don’t make policy prematurely,” Gigi Sohn, tech policy fellow at Georgetown Law, said at a hearing on rural connectivity last week. “There’s lots of talk about the ‘Race to 5G,’ but 5G is a marathon, not a sprint. 5G is coming, but it’s unwise to make broadband policy based on what 5G might be.”

In Osage, at least, broadband access has led to a swell in new business. Byrnes says former residents have started coming back to build businesses. Riding around northern Iowa, Byrnes dreamed about everything the area could become if Osage Municipal Utilities, or any telecom for that matter, could connect the households and businesses that line the streets and highways.

“There’s a beautiful trail system here,” Byrnes says. “But who would want to eat and drink at this restaurant if they can’t watch the Super Bowl?”Scale of Airbnb’s scam problem detailed in new Vice report
A new report from Vice has highlighted the range of different scams that unscrupulous Airbnb hosts have been pulling on their unsuspecting guests. From tricking guests into switching to dirty and rundown properties at the last minute, to threatening them if they don’t leave glowing 5-star reviews, the report’s findings suggest that Airbnb has been open to abuse for far too long, and that its promised reforms can’t come soon enough.

Vice’s report is well worth reading in its entirety, but there are a couple of stories in among the hundreds of emails the publication received that are worth highlighting. One user from Montreal described how they were asked to pay for their stay outside of the main Airbnb app, only to turn up and discover a filthy property that was infested with silverfish. Then, when the guest tried to cancel through Airbnb, the host “went off” at them, and tried to belittle them:

“I decided to cancel through Airbnb and tell them about what had happened. He went off at me, berated me for not handing it privately, told me I was acting in my own self interest and basically belittled me. I ended up having to pay the full first month even though I stayed a night… His listing is still up and a review posted after my stay also mentions the silverfish.”

Other Airbnb guests complained about being hit with excessive repair costs for minor damages like coffee stains. In one instance, a host tried to claim that their guest had lost their apartment key, and attempted to charge them thousands of dollars to replace it. Airbnb told Vice that it has “checks and balances” in place to protect against abuses like this, and in the case of the alleged missing key the guest managed to get the fine wiped from their account.

In total, Vice says it received almost a thousand emails detailing bad Airbnb experiences. One of the more interesting elements of the report is how similar many of the scams are, as hosts exploit loopholes in Airbnb’s processes to avoid scrutiny. Some hosts will try to claim that a property is unavailable due to an “unavoidable circumstance,” which means that they can avoid any cancellation penalty. Others try to run out the time that a user has to leave a review so that their bad behavior never gets revealed publicly.

After Vice’s initial report on a nationwide Airbnb scam in October last year, the platform promised to verify all of its listings by the end of 2020. Although this verification process stops short of sending an inspector to every single property, the platform plans to start asking guests more questions about the places they’ve visited in an attempt to “triangulate information” and reveal abuses. Airbnb adds that it will also use algorithms to screen listings to try and identify problems. More details about the verification program are promised in the coming months.There are loads of new Marvel TV shows to get excited about
In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

The first teaser for Marvel’s TV shows is here, and they look expensive

Alongside trailers for No Time to Die, Mulan, Black Widow and Minions: The Rise of Gru, a 30-second teaser during the Super Bowl offered Marvel fans a first glimpse at the MCU’s slate of new TV shows, which are coming to Disney+ this year and next.

There were clips from The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, which sees Captain America’s two best mates following in his footsteps – expect lots of shield-hurling, bullet-dodging action. WandaVision – which picks up the story arc of, you guessed it, Wanda and Vision – teased some trippy sitcom-style time travel that must have been a nightmare for the wardrobe department, while we saw just the briefest flash of Tom Hiddleston’s Loki threatening, as per usual, to burn everything to the ground.

Advertisement

It’s difficult to draw too many conclusions from the short teaser, but one thing is clear – this is a markedly different era for the MCU’s TV properties in terms of budgets and production values. Previous efforts like Agents of Shield and even the well-received Jessica Jones were operating in the network drama bracket (think CSI). Now we’re in HBO territory. These are going to be huge.

1917 cleaned up at the Baftas, but Joaquin Phoenix stole the show

Warner Bros

Read next Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad

The one-shot World War One epic picked up seven awards at Sunday night’s Bafta awards, including best film, best British film, best director, and best cinematography – read our dive into how the visual effects artist created the illusion of one fluid shot. Joker’s Joaquin Phoenix used his acceptance speech for best actor to rail against the lack of diversity on the shortlists, and systemic racism and oppression. Even the Duke of Cambridge chimed in – when a member of the royal family is criticising you for a lack of equality, something isn’t right.

The Bafta nominees you can watch on Netflix and Amazon right now Film The Bafta nominees you can watch on Netflix and Amazon right now

Advertisement

The best show of the decade has come to an end

Netflix

The WIRED office spent most of December arguing about what to put in our best of the decade lists, but when it came to television, the number one choice was pretty much unanimous. BoJack Horseman is funny, incisive and desperately sad. Although the lead character is a brash, boorish middle-aged man-horse, the show broke new ground in its treatment of female characters in animation. The final six episodes landed on Netflix on Friday – fans of the show will not be expecting a happy ending.

Uncut Gems curses its way into seventh on the all-time fuck chart

In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

Read next Netflix’s Ragnarok pits the climate crisis against every TV cliche Netflix’s Ragnarok pits the climate crisis against every TV cliche

It was a significant week for Netflix all around – The Good Place’s final season also drew to an end with a double-length episode, and we explored the psychology of what going to heaven would actually be like (spoiler: it would drive you mad).

Advertisement

Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad TV Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad

Crime thriller Uncut Gems – which stars Adam Sandler in a critically acclaimed performance – also landed on the platform after a short run in cinemas. The word ‘fuck’ appears 408 times, putting it seventh on the all time list just ahead of Straight Outta Compton. Sandler divides opinion, but he’s clearly doing the business for Netflix, which just ordered another four movies from his production company.

Not Tonight puts you in charge of dystopian post-Brexit Britain

In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

Alright, we have to hand it to you Nige – day three, and society hasn’t collapsed yet (except in one tower block in Norwich). But we’re still in the transition period, and given the tone of the prime minister’s statements, we could be looking at the breakdown of trade talks and a no-deal exit from the European Union at the end of the year. Management game Not Tonight: Take Back Control edition, from the makers of the widely praised Papers, Please! puts the player in a dystopian post-Brexit ruled by an extreme far-right government where, driven from your old life by the chaos, you’re forced to pick up casual work as a bouncer. The game is out now on the Nintendo Switch.

Read next 47 of the best Netflix series to binge watch right now 47 of the best Netflix series to binge watch right now

Amit Katwala is WIRED's culture editor. He tweets from @amitkatwala

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn