Why Everyone – Kendall Jenner Included – Wants To Be A Navarro Cheerleader
Thought cheerleading was all high kicks, pom-poms, and dating jocks? Wrong. The most hyped documentary series on Netflix right now follows the members of a college cheer squad from a small town in Texas as they prepare to defend their national championship – and Olivia Newton-John in Grease it ain’t. The gravity-defying efforts of the fearless (and, frankly, hard as nails) athletes on Cheer have captivated viewers, Kendall Jenner included; the supermodel even pulled off a pretty impressive full extension on Ellen as the cast looked on. Here’s why you need to get “on mat”, and fast.

We could all benefit from a one-to-one session with coach Monica

Navarro College Cheer coach Monica Aldama © Courtesy of Netflix

Navarro College Cheer’s now not-so-secret weapon? Step forward, Monica Aldama. Referred to simply as “the Queen” by her adoring team (“I would take a bullet for that woman,” says flyer Morgan at one point), this perfectionist Southern belle’s methods are of the iron fist in a velvet glove variety, and they’ve made the Navarro name legendary in cheerleading circles. She expects 100 per cent from her athletes off the mat as well as on, and as the series unfolds, it becomes increasingly (and movingly) clear just how invested she is in all aspects of her “kids”’ lives – not just their ability to execute a flawless full out. A composed, even taciturn presence at first, you’ll wonder why the squad is so obsessed with her. By the third episode, you’ll wish she was your cheer mom.

There are as many tales of triumph over adversity as there are nail-biting stunts

Flyer and top girl Morgan Simianer © Courtesy of Netflix

For many of these teens, the threat of cracking a rib in training is nothing compared to what they’ve been through outside the gym. From poverty, neglect, sexual abuse and suicide attempts to devastating loss and run-ins with the law, several credit the structure, support and sense of belonging that being on the team has given them with saving their lives.

Be more like Jerry Harris is our 2020 mantra

It takes approximately half an episode to fall in love with Jerry Harris, and that’s before learning that he tragically lost his mother at age 16. An adorable bundle of positivity and good vibes, we’d like the team’s unofficial mascot to mat talk us into work each morning (we’d probably just backflip our way to our desks). Expect to become deeply invested in whether or not Jerry makes mat.

The teammates’ bond is heart-warming

We should expect nothing less from cheerleaders, but the way the athletes support, encourage and motivate one another is genuinely heart-warming. If the pep talk Jerry is given in the heart-pounding final seconds before they take to the stage in Daytona doesn’t move you to tears, you should probably check you still have a pulse.

The team is all about inclusivity

© Courtesy of Netflix

Corsicana, Texas, is conservative, Christian, and unlikely to be a wholly comfortable environment for the gay members of the team. But Navarro is a haven for cheerleaders like La’Darius Marshall, who describes how it made him feel truly accepted after being subjected to homophobic bullying as a child. “I might be a little bit old-school with values and stuff like that, but I get angry,” says Aldama, herself a Christian. “I will debate you up one side and down the other if you talk about my boys. You know, those are my kids. I’ll fight tooth and nail for them,” she says. You believe her.

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.