There are loads of new Marvel TV shows to get excited about
In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

The first teaser for Marvel’s TV shows is here, and they look expensive

Alongside trailers for No Time to Die, Mulan, Black Widow and Minions: The Rise of Gru, a 30-second teaser during the Super Bowl offered Marvel fans a first glimpse at the MCU’s slate of new TV shows, which are coming to Disney+ this year and next.

There were clips from The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, which sees Captain America’s two best mates following in his footsteps – expect lots of shield-hurling, bullet-dodging action. WandaVision – which picks up the story arc of, you guessed it, Wanda and Vision – teased some trippy sitcom-style time travel that must have been a nightmare for the wardrobe department, while we saw just the briefest flash of Tom Hiddleston’s Loki threatening, as per usual, to burn everything to the ground.

Advertisement

It’s difficult to draw too many conclusions from the short teaser, but one thing is clear – this is a markedly different era for the MCU’s TV properties in terms of budgets and production values. Previous efforts like Agents of Shield and even the well-received Jessica Jones were operating in the network drama bracket (think CSI). Now we’re in HBO territory. These are going to be huge.

1917 cleaned up at the Baftas, but Joaquin Phoenix stole the show

Warner Bros

Read next Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad

The one-shot World War One epic picked up seven awards at Sunday night’s Bafta awards, including best film, best British film, best director, and best cinematography – read our dive into how the visual effects artist created the illusion of one fluid shot. Joker’s Joaquin Phoenix used his acceptance speech for best actor to rail against the lack of diversity on the shortlists, and systemic racism and oppression. Even the Duke of Cambridge chimed in – when a member of the royal family is criticising you for a lack of equality, something isn’t right.

The Bafta nominees you can watch on Netflix and Amazon right now Film The Bafta nominees you can watch on Netflix and Amazon right now

Advertisement

The best show of the decade has come to an end

Netflix

The WIRED office spent most of December arguing about what to put in our best of the decade lists, but when it came to television, the number one choice was pretty much unanimous. BoJack Horseman is funny, incisive and desperately sad. Although the lead character is a brash, boorish middle-aged man-horse, the show broke new ground in its treatment of female characters in animation. The final six episodes landed on Netflix on Friday – fans of the show will not be expecting a happy ending.

Uncut Gems curses its way into seventh on the all-time fuck chart

In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

Read next Netflix’s Ragnarok pits the climate crisis against every TV cliche Netflix’s Ragnarok pits the climate crisis against every TV cliche

It was a significant week for Netflix all around – The Good Place’s final season also drew to an end with a double-length episode, and we explored the psychology of what going to heaven would actually be like (spoiler: it would drive you mad).

Advertisement

Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad TV Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad

Crime thriller Uncut Gems – which stars Adam Sandler in a critically acclaimed performance – also landed on the platform after a short run in cinemas. The word ‘fuck’ appears 408 times, putting it seventh on the all time list just ahead of Straight Outta Compton. Sandler divides opinion, but he’s clearly doing the business for Netflix, which just ordered another four movies from his production company.

Not Tonight puts you in charge of dystopian post-Brexit Britain

In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

Alright, we have to hand it to you Nige – day three, and society hasn’t collapsed yet (except in one tower block in Norwich). But we’re still in the transition period, and given the tone of the prime minister’s statements, we could be looking at the breakdown of trade talks and a no-deal exit from the European Union at the end of the year. Management game Not Tonight: Take Back Control edition, from the makers of the widely praised Papers, Please! puts the player in a dystopian post-Brexit ruled by an extreme far-right government where, driven from your old life by the chaos, you’re forced to pick up casual work as a bouncer. The game is out now on the Nintendo Switch.

Read next 47 of the best Netflix series to binge watch right now 47 of the best Netflix series to binge watch right now

Amit Katwala is WIRED's culture editor. He tweets from @amitkatwala

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn