BAFTAs 2020: Everything You Need To Know
When were the BAFTAs 2020?

The BAFTAs 2020 were held on 2 February, at the Royal Albert Hall.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020 Red Carpet Dresses

Who hosted the BAFTAs 2020?

Graham Norton played master of ceremonies for the evening. While the presenter and comedian served as host for the British Academy Television Awards ceremony 15 years ago, this year marked his first time hosting the BAFTAs proper. “I’m delighted to be taking the helm of the biggest night in British film, the audience at the Royal Albert Hall will be the biggest sofa I’ve ever faced,” he quipped in a statement ahead of the night. “I’m honoured to be following in the fabulous footsteps of Stephen Fry and Joanna Lumley.”

Who presented at the BAFTAs 2020?

Presenters for this year’s BAFTAs included Lily-Rose Depp, Daniel Kaluuya, Ella Balinska, Andrew Scott, Kristin Scott Thomas, Richard E. Grant, Olivia Colman, Asa Butterfield, Naomie Harris, Ian McKellen, Zazie Beetz, Joe Alwyn, Gillian Anderson, and more.

Did the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge attend the BAFTAs 2020?

Yes, this year marks the 10th anniversary of the Duke becoming the president of BAFTA – a role first held by his grandfather the Duke of Edinburgh in 1959. The 2020 ceremony saw William present the Academy Fellowship – the greatest honour at the BAFTAs – to producer Kathleen Kennedy, who is renowned for her work on Star Wars, Jurassic Park and E.T. Chief executive of BAFTA, Amanda Berry, expressed in a statement ahead of the awards: “We are so pleased the Duke and Duchess will join us to celebrate another outstanding year in film.... We are immensely grateful to Their Royal Highnesses for their continued support.”

The Duchess of Cambridge at the BAFTAs 2020 in an Alexander McQueen dress she commissioned for a royal tour in 2012. Attendees were encouraged to take a sustainable approach to red-carpet dressing © Tim Rooke/Shutterstock

Why was there so much controversy around the BAFTAs 2020?

Sex Education’s Asa Butterfield and Charlie’s Angels’ Ella Balinska announced the nominations for this year’s BAFTAs on 7 January, sparking heated debate about the lack of diversity among the nominees – with members of the BAFTA committee speaking out about their frustration over the results of this year’s vote. “Infuriating lack of diversity in the acting noms,” chairman Marc Samuelson told Variety. “It’s just a frustration that the industry is not moving as fast as certainly the whole BAFTA team would like it to be.” BAFTA has subsequently announced that it will be reviewing its voting process in light of the backlash.

In response to the nominations, a host of leading British actors partnered with Time’s Up to put together their own alternative list of people deserving of a statuette. Among the directors nominated by a group including Carey Mulligan, Himesh Patel, and Gemma Arterton were Greta Gerwig (Little Women), Lorene Scafaria (Hustlers), Bong Joon-ho (Parasite), Mati Diop (Atlantique) and Olivia Wilde (Booksmart). Meanwhile, The Farewell’s Tzi Ma and Parasite’s Lee Jung Eun were recognised for their supporting performances – and Jodie Turner-Smith (Queen & Slim), Chiwetel Ejiofor (The Boy Who Harnessed The Wind), Cynthia Erivo (Harriet), Daniel Kaluuya (Queen & Slim), and Lupita Nyong’o (Us) for their starring roles.

Queen & Slim star Jodie Turner-Smith at the BAFTAs 2020 © David M. Benett

“The awards season is upon us and while there are some great films and outstanding performances nominated, there have been glaring omissions,” Heather Rabbatts, the UK Chair of Time’s Up, said of the list in a statement. “The lack of diversity both at the Golden Globes and now at the BAFTAs has been the subject of criticism from across the media and from talent. It could be said that the debate itself is a manifestation of all the work Time’s Up UK and others have been doing to raise this issue to the forefront. But we all know this is a long and difficult journey… We really hope you will join with us in celebrating the rich and diverse roster of talent before us.”

Who were the winners at the BAFTAs 2020?

Best Film

1917

Outstanding British Film

1917

Leading Actress

Renée Zellweger, Judy

Leading Actor

Joaquin Phoenix, Joker

Supporting Actress

Laura Dern, Marriage Story

Supporting Actor

Brad Pitt, Once Upon A Time In Hollywood

Director

Sam Mendes, 1917

EE Rising Star Award

Micheal Ward

Outstanding Debut By A British Writer, Director, Or Producer

Bait

Film Not In The English Language

Parasite

Documentary

For Sama

Animated Film

Klaus

Original Screenplay

Parasite

Adapted Screenplay

Jojo Rabbit

Original Music

Joker

Cinematography

1917

Editing

Ford vs Ferrari

Production Design

1917

Make-Up And Hair

Bombshell

Costume Design

Little Women

Sound

1917

Special Visual Effects

1917

Best Casting

Joker

British Short Film

Learning To Skateboard In A Warzone (If You're a Girl)

British Short Animation

Grandad Was A Romantic

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.