Pale, Male and Stale: Why The BAFTAs Template Needs A Rethink
Thank goodness for the great British public – or at least that sector of it that voted for the EE Rising Star award, and so provided a lacklustre BAFTA awards with its only prize to be won by a person of colour. Micheal Ward took the prize for his brilliant performances in Top Boy and Blue Story and then brought a welcome blast of emotion to a ceremony that was safe, stale, male and pale – and almost entirely predictable.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020 Red Carpet Dresses

“Seek out opportunities and see a vision,” he said, with sincerity, as his mother sobbed and waved from the audience. Ward’s presence was a stark reminder of absence elsewhere, a fact that the embarrassed organisers tried to disguise with their choice of presenters and that failsafe British mechanism of self-critical joshing, including an opening segment presented by Asim Chaudhry (Chabuddy G) in the style of a British Airways advertisement.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

That was until Joaquin Phoenix stepped up to the podium to collect his best actor BAFTA and, clearly having decided the best actor Oscar is in the bag and it’s time to speak out, threw a grenade into the room by calling on the industry to “do the hard work to truly understand systemic racism”. He included himself in the admonishment, insisting that the “people who have created, perpetuated and benefited from a system of oppression [ought] to be the ones to dismantle it”.

© David Fisher/BAFTA/Shutterstock

It was an uncomfortable moment in many ways – all too easy to mock given the amount of privilege Phoenix himself carries – but when, later in the ceremony, the president of BAFTA, the Duke of Cambridge (who had spent the night grinning his way uncomfortably through jokes about his family) said that the lack of diversity “simply cannot be right in this day and age”, it’s a sign that the film industry really does have a problem that other areas of the arts have gone much further on the road to remedy.

Read more: See All The Pictures From The British Vogue Fashion And Film Party In Partnership With Tiffany & Co

It’s not the only thing that needs addressing, however, on what felt from the comfort of an armchair like a leaden and laboured night. BAFTA must also decide whether it is a genuinely independent ceremony celebrating films that appeal to British tastes – or simply a harbinger of the Oscars which closes the odds on awards in most categories. It was cheering to see 1917, which follows two British soldiers on a desperate mission, win big; it is a magnificent film which is about much more than its illusion of a single continuous shot, and Sam Mendes was a gracious, articulate winner. But to see it take home seven of the nine awards for which it was nominated when a film as powerful as Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman went home empty-handed seems unduly blinkered.

© Anthony Harvey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

Scorsese’s collaborator, Thelma Schoonmaker, didn’t even win the best editing prize; that went to the showy all-boy mechanics of Le Mans 66, an enjoyable film but not one we will be talking about in even a year’s time. Only Brad Pitt’s win in the best supporting actor category saved Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time in Hollywood’s blushes; it also gave Pitt the chance to make a speech in absentia via Margot Robbie and to make one of those royal cracks, saying he will call his prize Harry because he was “excited about bringing it back to the States”.

But Tarantino lost out in the best screenplay category to Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite (which also picked up the award for best film not in the English language). He applauded but his face was like stone for most of the ceremony; it must be very hard to produce one of the best films of your life yet still have to play the gallant loser for the cameras.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

On occasion, the ceremony departed from the predictable and pre-ordained script (Renée Zellweger won best actress for Judy, Laura Dern best supporting actress for Marriage Story). BAFTA’s choice of Jojo Rabbit’s Taika Waititi as best adapted screenplay winner improves its chances in the same category at the Oscars, but it means that the shutout of Greta Gerwig for her imaginative and life-enhancing work on Little Women was complete.

Read more: Moments You May Have Missed At The BAFTAs 2020

The choice of Joker for the new award for casting – which ignored the ground-breaking multi-racial and colour-blind casting of The Personal History of David Copperfield, as well as the Rolls Royce choices of supporting cast in OUATIH and Marriage Story – felt positively peculiar. Whatever you think of Joker, it is a film built around a single dynamic performance; the others have a richness of acting talent on display that it simply lacks, and it was hard not to feel that perhaps the voters simply went for the film they had watched earliest and knew best.

© David Fisher/BAFTA/Shutterstock

There were some moments to savour. The arrival of Waad and Hamza al-Kateab and their daughter Sama on stage to collect the best documentary award (with co-director for Edward Watts) for For Sama, which records their life under siege in Aleppo, Syria, was hugely emotional. Waad’s impassioned plea that people should let the 3.5 million people still under bombardment and the heroic medical teams who care for them “hear your voice” was one of the most powerful speeches of the night.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020: Vogue’s Best Dressed

In a lighter vein, there was Hugh Grant’s encounter with his former Bridget Jones’s Diary co-star Zellweger. Before he announced the winner of the best film, he drawled: “First of all, well done Jones. That was a very, very silly little dress, I thought.” Every woman in the room laughed in recognition of a line from the film; many of the men looked marginally baffled.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

And then there was Rebel Wilson, one of the few presenters to bring her own script, and what a script it was: scabrous, rude, full of gags about the failure of Cats – “there has been a distinct lack of nominations for felines” – and ending with a delicious dig at the all-male best director shortlist. “I don’t think I could do what they do. Honestly, I just don’t have the balls.”

There were also wins for the distinctly British Bait, a film shot in black and white, on 16mm film, hand processed by its director Mark Jenkin, about two brothers in a Cornish fishing village (in the best debut category) and for the glorious British short animation Grandad Was A Romantic, directed by Maryam Mohajer. The fact that her victory was not shown in the British TV coverage sums up just about everything that was wrong with the BAFTAs in 2020.

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.