6 Oscar-Nominated Films To Watch On Netflix Ahead Of The Academy Awards 2020
Marriage Story

If you’re in need of a good cry this weekend, allow me to recommend Marriage Story – Noah Baumbach’s utterly brilliant depiction of a marriage slowly falling apart and individual lives slowly coming together. Adam Driver and Scarlett Johansson earned well-deserved Best Actor and Best Actress nods for their starring roles, while Laura Dern is tipped to win Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of manic, tea-swilling divorce lawyer Nora (who, incidentally, would probably get along like a house on fire with Dern’s Big Little Lies character Renata Klein). Pour yourself a glass of Pinot Noir, brush up on your knowledge of Stephen Sondheim’s Company, and enjoy.

© Netflix

The Edge Of Democracy

Director Petra Costa marries the political and the personal in her study of the history of democracy in her native Brazil. “Brazilian democracy and I are almost the same age,” the 36 year old points out in the film’s trailer while home video footage of her casting her first election ballot plays in the background. She specifically hones in on the deep-rooted corruption within the Worker’s Party, which resulted in the imprisonment of former President Lula (2003-2010) and the impeachment of his successor in office, Dilma Rousseff (2011-2016). Nominated for Best Documentary Feature, it’s essential viewing following the controversial election of Brazil’s current President Jair Bolsonaro at the end of 2019.

© Netflix

The Irishman

With a runtime of three hours and 29 minutes, Martin Scorsese’s latest mob epic is a commitment – but one that’s well worth making. Based on I Heard You Paint Houses, former homicide prosecutor Charles Brandt’s study of the murder of Jimmy Hoffa, it charts the life of hit man Frank “The Irishman” Sheeran, played exquisitely by Robert De Niro, as he falls in with mafia kingpin Russell Bufalino (Joe Pesci), ultimately serving as bodyguard to the wheeling and dealing labour union leader Hoffa. With no less than 10 Oscar nominations this year, including Best Picture and Best Director, it’s a must-watch.

© Netflix

I Lost My Body

Adapted from a novel by the screenwriter behind Amélie, I Lost My Body is one of the most bizarrely wonderful films to make its way to the Oscars in recent years. Nominated for Best Animated Feature, the macabre plot chronicles a severed hand’s quest to be reunited with its owner Naoufel – a pizza delivery boy whose life, including his nostalgia-inducing childhood in Morocco, is gradually revealed through flashbacks. (Notably, the character is voiced in English by none other than Dev Patel.) Just as remarkable as the Studio Ghibli-inspired ethos of the film? The electronic score by Dan Levy, who director Jérémy Clapin refers to as the drama’s co-author.

_PMP1135.ARW © Netflix

The Two Popes

The latest from Brazilian director Fernanco Meirelles (City of God and The Constant Gardener), The Two Popes is a fictional account of the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI following the Vatican leaks and the ascension of Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio – now Pope Francis – to the head of the church. Anthony Hopkins and Jonathan Pryce are nominated for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor for their roles as Benedict and Francis, respectively – but more than their individual performances, it’s the chemistry and banter between the two Hollywood veterans throughout this quietly moving film that make it so enjoyable to watch.

© Netflix

American Factory

Made by Barack and Michelle Obama’s Higher Ground Productions and nominated for Best Documentary Feature, this fascinating documentary chronicles the lives of the employees of an auto-glass manufacturing plant in Dayton, Ohio, run by a mammoth Chinese company named Fuyao. Directors Steven Bognar and Julia Reichert – who shot a previous documentary in the factory when it was first closed by General Motors – delicately juxtapose the beliefs of American and Chinese employees, who work side-by-side in high-risk jobs. A stunning portrait of how the global economy is reshaping our lives for better and for worse.

Read more: Here’s Everything You Need To Know About The Oscars 2020

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.