Another HIV vaccine strategy fails in large-scale study
Another HIV vaccine strategy fails in large-scale study

The failure-ridden search for a vaccine that can stop the AIDS virus has delivered yet another frustrating defeat. The HIV vaccine that had moved furthest along in human testing does not work, and the $104 million trial in South Africa evaluating it has been stopped early. “There’s absolutely no evidence of efficacy,” says Glenda Gray, who heads the study and is president of the South African Medical Research Council (MRC). “Years of work went into this. It’s a huge disappointment.”

The efficacy study, which began in October 2016, is known as HVTN 702. It enrolled 5407 sexually active, HIV-uninfected men and women between 18 and 35 years of age at 14 sites across the country. Researchers randomly assigned half of the participants to receive a pair of HIV vaccines used in a one-two punch called a prime boost, whereas the other half received placebo shots. The trial was supposed to last until July 2022. But on 23 January, an independent monitoring board that takes scheduled, sneak peaks at the data to evaluate safety and efficacy, informed Gray and the other leaders of the study that it was “futile” to continue. There were 129 infections in the vaccinated group and 123 in those who received the placebo. “I was catatonic,” Gray says.

No evidence exists that the vaccine caused harm, as happened in a different large HIV vaccine study that was abruptly halted in 2007. Susan Buchbinder, an epidemiologist at the University of California, San Francisco, who co-chaired that earlier sobering study, congratulates her colleagues in South Africa for conducting a scientifically rigorous, complex trial. “The trial was incredibly well done and we got a definitive answer, and that’s what science is about,” says Buchbinder, who is the chair of a multicountry trial, Mosaico, that now is the most advanced large-scale HIV vaccine study underway.

In the halted trial, funded by MRC, the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the “prime” was a harmless canarypox virus that carries genes for HIV’s surface protein and two of its other structural proteins. The boost contained a recombinant version of the surface protein mixed with an immune system booster, or adjuvant, called MF59.

Many HIV scientists had doubted the South Africa study would succeed because the vaccines used in the prime-boost scheme had only produced lackluster results in an efficacy study in Thailand. In that study, which ended in 2009, HIV infections totaled 51 in the vaccine group and 74 in the placebo arm—an efficacy of 31%. The field widely agreed that this wasn’t a high enough level of protection to bring the vaccine to market, but researchers were divided as to whether it made sense to try to build on the vaccine or abandon it.

Gray says that given the severity of the epidemic in South Africa—it is home to 7.7 million of the world’s 37.9 million HIV-infected people—she and her colleagues, who slightly improved the vaccines used in Thailand, believed the new trial was worth the gamble. “The epidemic is out of control here and we have to take steps to have a biomedical intervention,” Gray says. NIAID Director Anthony Fauci says he has no regrets about backing the study. “I don’t think it was a bad choice. It was the only choice.”

To this day, no one knows which immune responses can prevent an HIV infection—the so-called correlates of immunity—but many researchers have focused on creating a vaccine that can trigger antibodies capable of “neutralizing” the ability of the virus to infect cells in lab studies. The Thai trial vaccines triggered production of antibodies that bound to HIV but did not it neutralize, Fauci notes, raising the possibility this was good enough to offer some protection. “We were struggling for years and years, and so we grabbed onto the slightest positive effect, a potential correlate of immunity, and it looked interesting,” he says. “Given the seriousness of the epidemic, if this was all we had and vaccines that stimulated neutralizing antibodies were years down the pipeline, do you do something or nothing?”

Fauci notes that the Thai study involved people at relatively low risk of infection—the rate of new infections were about 0.3% per year—which means the prime-boost may work if the immunity it creates doesn’t face repeated challenges. In the South Africa study, the rate of new infections per year was about 4% in women and 1% in men. “It could be the protection was completely overwhelmed,” Fauci says.

Years of work went into this. It’s a huge disappointment Glenda Gray, South African Medical Research Council

Mitchell Warren, who heads AVAC, a nonprofit HIV prevention advocacy group, says this latest failure won’t slow the vaccine field. “There are other products in efficacy trials and there’s a slightly larger pipeline in phase I trials than we’ve had in a long time,” says Warren, who was on the monitoring board that recommended stopping the South African study.

The vaccine candidate that’s being tested in the Mosaico trial is now the front-runner. Made by Jannsen Vaccines, its prime-boost scheme begins with that a preparation that contains a “mosaic” of HIV genes from different subtypes of the virus that researchers stitched into a harmless adenovirus. In earlier tests, this vaccine also did not trigger neutralizing antibodies, but produced high levels of binding antibodies and other immune responses. A booster shot consists of a mosaic version of HIV’s surface protein mixed with an alum adjuvant.

This prime-boost mixture performed well in monkey studies that vaccinated the animals and then “challenged” them with a simian form of HIV. In the Mosaico trial, transgender people and men who have sex with men in North America and Europe will receive it. The vaccine is also being tested in a smaller sister study, Imbokodo, of women in sub-Saharan Africa. The results from Imboko are expected next year and Mosaico in 2023.

*Correction, 3 February, 11:45 a.m.: The adjuvant noted in this story has been changed to MF59. Alum was used in the earlier trial in Thailand.Neymar: PSG star celebrates birthday with lavish bash after coach called it a 'distraction'
Neymar arrives at his white-themed party in a suit and matching fedora. He turns 28 on Wednesday

Neymar celebrated his upcoming 28th birthday with a lavish party at Parisian nightclub Yoyo on Sunday.

Paris St-Germain manager Thomas Tuchel skipped the white-themed party under the Palais de Tokyo, after branding it "a distraction", with the event coming just two days before their next game.

It appeared to be a sentiment not shared by the Brazilian's team-mates and celebrity pals however, with Edinson Cavani, Marco Verratti and Angel di Maria embracing the dress code and injured Lyon winger Memphis Depay sporting a pair of £1,200 boots.

All white on the night (left to right): Memphis Depay, Angel di Maria, Edinson Cavani and Marco Verratti

Serial party host Neymar is well known for his extravagant get-togethers, but it was reported that Neymar would rein in his celebrations this year before his actual birthday on Wednesday.

He threw a 'Nuit Rouge' themed event for his 27th birthday for around 200 guests, while he welcomed in his 26th birthday with a black tie event attended by Lewis Hamilton and the president of Brazil.

Sunday's bash came a day after PSG's bad-tempered 5-0 victory against Montpellier, that was notable for incidents involving a pink-haired Neymar and team-mate Kylian Mbappe.

Neymar shrugged off an injury scare, taunted the opposition with his signature tricks and raged at the officials.

Mbappe, 21, reacted angrily to being substituted midway through the second half.

"These are distractions, and they give the impression we are not serious, not professional," said Tuchel, in his post-match comments when discussing Neymar's party.

But on Tuesday, he denied he had a personal issue with Neymar.

"It's my choice not to participate in the party," Tuchel said. "It's a choice as a coach; it's not against Neymar personally."

Mbappe appeared to skip the party all together, instead opting to watch the Kansas City Chiefs win the Super Bowl after attending an event at Disneyland Paris.

Maybe he couldn't find anything white to wear...England in South Africa: The issues facing England at start of new ODI cycle
England beat New Zealand after a super over in their last 50-over match - the World Cup final at Lord's

It's 205 days since England's last one-day international on THAT glorious, sun-kissed Sunday at Lord's.

Then, England won their first 50-over World Cup in the most dramatic fashion but now, 6,000 miles away in the shadow of Table Mountain, a new chapter begins.

Tuesday, and the first of three ODIs against South Africa, marks the beginning of a new four-year cycle as England ultimately build towards defending their world title in India in 2023.

So how are the world champions looking going into the series, what issues are on the horizon and what changes could happen?

Will Morgan stay on as captain?

Morgan was appointed England captain shortly before the 2015 World Cup in Australia

The biggest issue around the future of England's 50-over team surrounds their captain Eoin Morgan - the man who took them from no-hopers to world champions in the space of four years.

Following the World Cup, Morgan did not immediately commit to staying on as skipper, citing back problems, and he has so far only guaranteed continuing until the Twenty20 World Cup in October in Australia.

This - and the fact Morgan will be 36 when the next World Cup begins - raises serious doubts over whether he will be part of the England team in 2023.

Former assistant coach Paul Farbrace, who was a key part of England's white-ball improvements before leaving the set-up in spring 2019, said Morgan may be tempted to walk away if his side win the T20 World Cup.

Farbrace told BBC Sport: "Whether he will be playing in another four years, who knows? If his form is good and his fitness is good then there is no reason why he shouldn't."

'Buttler the heir apparent'

Buttler last captained England against Pakistan in May 2019 when Morgan was suspended

Farbrace says that if - or when - Morgan does move on from the captaincy, the plan is in place within the England set-up for wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Buttler to take over.

Buttler, 29, is the current vice-captain and has stood in on six occasions when Morgan has been unavailable.

"Buttler is the heir apparent," Farbrace said. "He is a very good leader within that team. He will make a fantastic captain.

"He and Morgs think very similarly about the game but, equally, he will be his own man.

"He does more in the dressing room than people give him credit for. He has a big say in a lot of things. He and [Ben] Stokes are the two big talkers in the dressing room."

Media playback is not supported on this device Watch the moment England won the World Cup

Although he believes Buttler is ready to captain England, Farbrace said he would prefer Morgan to continue for at least two more years, until after the T20 World Cup in India in 2021.

"If Jos doesn't take over the captaincy for another year, 18 months or two years and has an 18-month period into the World Cup, that would be perfect for him," Farbrace said.

"There would be a danger if Jos took over too soon and he had four years to build a team then that might be too long.

"I'd like to think Morgs will do it for the next couple of years and win the T20 World Cup at least once. It would also give Jos little bit more time to be in position to take over as captain."

Who else could move on?

The squad for England's series against South Africa is largely made up of the 2019 World Cup-winning cohort with a handful of additions and some key players rested.

However, bowlers Jofra Archer and Tom Curran are the only World Cup winners who will be aged under 30 by the time the 2023 tournament begins.

Liam Plunkett, 34, has not been selected to play in South Africa and it seems England have already moved on from the bowler who has played 89 ODIs and took 11 wickets during the World Cup campaign.

Morgan, Adil Rashid and Moeen Ali would all be at least 34, although Rashid and Moeen's role as spinners give them a better chance of survival.

Farbrace said he still expects most of the World Cup winners to be involved in three years' time but says England will be wary of fielding an ageing team.

How many of England's World Cup winners will make India 2023? Player Age at start of 2023 World Cup Jason Roy 32 Jonny Bairstow 33 Joe Root 32 Eoin Morgan 36 Ben Stokes 31 Jos Buttler 32 Chris Woakes 33 Liam Plunkett 37 Adil Rashid 34 Jofra Archer 27 Mark Wood 33 James Vince 31 Moeen Ali 35 Liam Dawson 32 Tom Curran 27

"Most will want to be there," he said. "Winning the World Cup at home was brilliant for them and brilliant for the game, but they would like to win it in a different country as well.

"With Morgan, Rashid and Moeen, England will want them to be playing good cricket and not going in with injuries.

"The other thing would be the mobility of them. If you have too many older players who lack mobility and are not so good in the field you will struggle, because in India on small grounds your fielding is going to have to be magnificent.

"It will be a case of wanting their variation and skills but wanting them to be at the top of their game."

So who could come in?

There were signs of England looking to the future in late 2019 with batsman Tom Banton, all-rounder Lewis Gregory and bowlers Pat Brown, Saqib Mahmood and Matt Parkinson making their T20 debuts during the series win over New Zealand.

Banton, Mahmood and Parkinson have all been included for the series in South Africa, with Brown only missing because of a back injury.

Middlesex and England bowler Steven Finn expects Lancashire fast bowler Mahmood to make many more international appearances.

"Domestically, whenever I saw him on TV last year or when Middlesex played Lancashire he bowled very, very impressively," Finn told BBC Sport. "He is someone to keep an eye on."

Banton averaged 31.85 in seven matches in the Big Bash for Brisbane Heat

Somerset batsman Banton, 21, is perhaps the most well known of the trio. He scored a T20 century for Somerset last summer, starred with three fifties in an impressive stint in the Big Bash League this winter and has been described as a "future star" by former England captain Michael Vaughan.

"He could quite easily come into that England team and keep the momentum going," Farbrace said.

"He is a fantastic player and has been very impressive. Phil Salt at Sussex is another who is very exciting."

Salt, who has also been impressing in the Big Bash, was called into the England squad as injury cover last summer, although he did not play.

Warwickshire director of cricket Farbrace also highlighted Bears batsman Sam Hain, 24, Warwickshire fast bowler Henry Brookes, 20, Lancashire batsman Liam Livingstone, 26, who has played two T20s for England, and Sussex bowler Ollie Robinson as other players who could be involved.

Robinson, who is Farbrace's stepson, has taken 137 County Championship wickets across the past two seasons and made his England Lions debut in 2019.

Mission India 2023 - find more death bowlers?

So England have three years to mould a team capable of defending their title in 2023.

To do so they must take into account the conditions they will face on the subcontinent, conditions which are likely to differ greatly to those in England.

England selected 34 players between the 2015 and 2019 World Cups before eventually settling on a stable squad of players in the run-up to the 2019 tournament - the arrival of Archer aside.

Farbrace expects England to employ a similar period of experimentation over the next two years.

"We didn't nail down our plan for the first 18 months," Farbrace said. "It was very fluid.

"England will have 15 months of experiment and widening the talent pool and then narrow it down, nailing down the game plan that is specific for India.

"The last three World Cups have been won by the host nation and in 2023 England can expect to find small grounds with flat, high-scoring pitches.

Jofra Archer can expect to be part of England's 2023 World Cup squad and has gained experience of bowling in India at the Indian Premier League

"How well you bowl in the last 10 overs will be an absolutely key part of the next World Cup. Who wins it will have the best bowling attack, not the best batting line-up.

"England will be happy where their batting is at. There is no need to change too much with that.

"The key now is making sure we have enough variety and skill in our bowling.

"There will not be too many wickets with the new ball so you want players who can close matches out and stop opposition batsmen scoring more than 80 runs off the last 10 overs.

"Your yorker bowlers, slower-ball bowlers and skilful seamers are going to play a massive part. That will end up being the difference between the teams."

Although not part of the upcoming South Africa series, the inaugural ICC Cricket World Cup Super League begins in May 2020 and will form part of the qualification process for India 2023.

Hosts India and the top seven sides in the World Cup Super League will guarantee their place at the showpiece.

England's first matches in the Super League are a three-match series with Australia in July.Football news - 'No hard feelings' says Spurs' Alli on Sterling's mistimed tackle
Sterling's attempt to win the ball saw him step on Alli's ankle but the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) did not deem the challenge worthy of a red card, angering Spurs boss Jose Mourinho who was adamant the England man should have been sent off.

Alli carried on playing before he was substituted in the 70th minute and Spurs, who play an FA Cup fourth round replay against Southampton on Wednesday, are yet to provide an update on the severity of his injury.

Video - Jose Mourinho: 'I thought I would love VAR… I was wrong' 00:50

"There are no hard feelings. He is a fantastic player and we move on."

The tackle was similar to last month's incident where Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was sent off on VAR review and banned for three games when his mistimed tackle nearly injured Crystal Palace's Max Meyer.

Video - Pep Guardiola was speechless when asked about the title 00:42

The result moved Spurs up to fifth in the Premier League standings - four points behind Chelsea and a top four spot - while second-placed City are now 22 points behind league leaders Liverpool. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru Editing by Christian Radnedge)Tennis news – When could Novak Djokovic surpass Roger Federer and win No.21?
Djokovic’s eighth title in Melbourne, sealed with a five-set win over Dominic Thiem, moved him to within three of Federer in the all-time charts.

The 32-year-old now has his sights on surpassing the Swiss great, conceding that he probably has two seasons to achieve it before the rigors of fatherhood take over.

"At this stage of my career, Grand Slams matter the most. Trying to reach that historic number one is something I would love to achieve and I’m working towards that," Djokovic said in front of ecstatic Serbian fans on Eurosport.

Video - Djokovic targeting Federer's Grand Slam record 06:59

"Being a father, I really want to participate in the upbringing of my children. I want to spend quality time with them, so I know that the moment I slow down and selectively play tournaments is coming very close.

"I want to have a shot at number one, it’s going to be this year or next year. I’m going to try and give it all and reach that."

So can Djokovic do it – and if so, when might he achieve it?

Grand Slam men's titles (all-time)

Player Grand Slam singles titles Roger Federer 20 Rafael Nadal 19 Novak Djokovic 17 Pete Sampras 14 Roy Emerson 12 Rod Laver 11 Bjorn Borg 11

Video - Fanatical For: Experience Novak Djokovic's victory alongside his die-hard fans 04:04

Wilander: Djokovic can hit 19 majors in 2020

Eurosport expert Mats Wilander is backing Djokovic to win two more Slams in 2020 to move within one of Federer.

"So winning here, does that make him the favourite at Wimbledon where he is defending? Yes, that’s 18. [It] makes him the favourite at the US Open, that’s 19," Wilander said.

"At the end of the year, we could have two players on 20 or two on 19 or even more because Novak had can win all four."

"This is a huge win for him going forwards. A loss here would have been very difficult to get confidence and come back. But the door is open for him to start climbing through it and talk about being the greatest ever."

When could the magic No.21 arrive?

Firstly, this assumes Federer will not win another Slam. The Swiss’ groin issue in Melbourne highlighted the troubles of transporting a 38-year-old frame through a two-week tournament, but he can’t be completely discounted. Wimbledon remains his best hope, his serve capable of keeping matches super short, but can he banish memories of last year’s choke against Djokovic?

It’s all hypothetical but Djokovic still looks primed for a sixth Wimbledon title (18). But winning the US Open immediately afterwards is far from certain given he’s won 'just' one of the last four editions. A more conservative estimate would suggest No.19 arrives in Melbourne next year before Djokovic wins a fourth straight Wimbledon (20). As for No.21? Given his vow to tone down his commitments after the 2021 season, all his efforts can fix on one final flourish at the US Open.

Of course, there are plenty of problems with this prophecy…

Video - Tennis Legends: Is it time to move the Australian Open indoors? 04:46

The Nadal and Next Gen factors

Djokovic is four unanswered Slams from taking top spot in the men’s game – but that relies on two men coming up short.

Rafael Nadal also has a strong claim to the GOAT throne, despite winning 63% of his majors at the same event. The French Open has provided a constant source of joy for the Spaniard, who will go for a ridiculous 13th title in Paris this summer. Should he triumph, he too would be on 20 titles.

But if Nadal is a threat to Djokovic, then who is the threat to Nadal?

Step forward, Dominic Thiem. The Austrian looks the only player capable of beating Nadal on clay, having done so in each of the last four seasons. The 26-year-old has lost the past two French Open finals to Nadal, taking just one set, but his victory over him in Melbourne will fuel belief that he can do it again on his favoured surface.

And it’s not just Thiem threatening to break through. Alexander Zverev finally performed at a five-set event in Australia, Daniil Medvedev emerged as a likable villain when he almost beat Nadal in the 2019 US Open final and Stefanos Tsitsipas looks a huge talent after he won the ATP Finals in London last year.

Djokovic, Nadal and (to some extent) Federer are managing their physical decline by maintaining their aura of invincibility – much like the latter years of Manchester United under Sir Alex Ferguson – accepting that their Next Gen rivals will occasionally blast them off court, but will lack the belief and consistency to knock them out at majors. But the talent gap has finally been bridged and freebie Slams will soon be in the past for the Big Three.

The upshot? Federer may already be safe of 20 titles. Or, perhaps, Djokovic and Nadal could join him on 20 and then find it impossible to win that elusive 21st...Morata injury leaves Atletico short on forwards
Morata suffered the injury during the 1-0 derby defeat by Real Madrid on Saturday which left his side sixth and 13 points behind their rivals who are top of La Liga.

Atletico also have Diego Costa and Joao Felix sidelined ahead of upcoming league matches against Granada and Valencia and the Champions League clash with Liverpool on Feb. 18.

Simeone's side tried to buy Edinson Cavani from Paris Saint-Germain in the winter transfer window but were unable to secure a deal for the Uruguayan, before re-signing winger Yannick Carrasco. (Reporting by Rik Sharma Editing by Christian Radnedge)What the Iowa Caucus means for getting Iowa online
If you need to get online in Winterset, Iowa (population 5,200), you head to the library. Free Wi-Fi has been in place for a while, but starting this week, the library is lending out ten Sprint mobile hotspots in hardshell cases, prepped for students and residents who can’t count on connectivity otherwise.

It’s one of the many creative ways local leaders in Winterset have worked to ensure every person in their community has reasonable access to the internet. Kids who live out in the country still go to school in Winterset, and often submit their homework online as part of the district’s one-to-one Chromebook deal. But with only choppy wireless or satellite signals, it’s hard for country kids to hand in their assignments from home.

“Folks in big cities don’t understand that it’s really different here,” says Jean Bosch, director of the Winterset Public Library. “We just don’t have the same access, and it’s not okay.”

Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America

The problem is much bigger than Winterset. In 2016, the FCC estimated more than 24 million Americans lack access to broadband, and even that was probably an underestimate. Two years later, Microsoft ran its own study and found the FCC had vastly underestimated, determining that close to 163 million people were being left out of the push for the faster web. It’s particularly a problem for rural communities, which are ten times more likely to lack broadband access.

In Iowa, it’s been this way for years. According to the commission’s most recent study, only 77 percent of rural Iowans had access to high-speed fixed broadband (25 Mbps down and three up, per FCC standards). That’s only a 17 percent increase over the past five years. Nearly all homes in the urban areas of the state have access to high-speed internet, but rural areas have been slow to catch up, largely because of the sheer expense of connecting them.

“If we had the ability to serve sparsely populated areas with a decent return on investment, we would have all been hooked up already,” Dave Duncan, CEO of the Iowa Communications Alliance, tells The Verge. In some rural communities, Duncan says, a telecom could lay a mile of fiber or coaxial cable and only be able to connect one home.

The traditional telecoms haven’t gotten the rural residents of Winterset online — and what’s left is a patchwork of grants and public programs that can be hard to predict and harder to sustain. And while the Iowa Caucus has brought massive political attention to the small state, little of that attention has gone to the state’s networks. Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America, but it’s still a secondary issue for the candidates, raising uncomfortable questions about how long towns like Winterset may have to wait to join the rest of the country online.

Nine days before the caucuses, people were lined up in eighteen-degree weather outside the Ames City Auditorium to see Sanders with Michael Moore, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and the band Portugal, the Man. For the Sanders supporters, the biggest applause lines were about health care.

“If you are tired of student debt, if you are sick and tired and scared of climate change, if you are disgusted with racism and sexism and homophobia and xenophobia, if you believe that health care is a human right, you can’t sit it out,” Sanders told a crowd of hundreds.

At rallies and town halls across the state this past week, health care, climate change, and education were the top concerns, no matter which candidate was on stage. That’s in line with Gallup polling, which shows infrastructure as thirteenth behind more common concerns like health care, education and economic policy. But the simple question of internet access sits in the background of many of those issues.

Alisha Jenecke, a red-haired home-care worker from West Des Moines, says the main issue that brought her to the Sanders rally was health care. But in her work providing that care, she feels the impact of spotty internet almost every day.

“If my signal is gone, I can’t do my job. I had an internet black hole yesterday in someone’s apartment in the middle of downtown Des Moines,” Jenecke tells The Verge. “It’s super annoying to have to write everything down and then go in later and open up the document and put everything back in later. It’s extra work.”

In more rural areas outside Des Moines, connectivity is an even bigger problem. Jeremy Mostek, the founder of Pyro’s Pride fireworks store in Mitchell, Iowa, has trouble watching videos displaying any new products from his Chinese suppliers before he purchases them and sells them to customers. Some folks in Mitchell never bothered making Facebook or Netflix accounts at all because of a lack of access.

Back in Winterset, a few years ago, the Winterset Public School District put stickers up on local businesses signifying that they were a safe place for students to do their homework if they didn’t have access at home. If the businesses are closed, students sit in their cars outside of restaurants to upload their assignments.

In some ways, it’s the perfect problem for big government to solve. The FCC is already tasked with overseeing America’s network, and the commission already operates a range of programs aimed at bringing the internet to underserved areas. But for whatever reason, those programs haven’t reached places like Winterset.

Part of the problem is information. The FCC’s coverage maps rely on self-reporting from telecoms, which often means exaggerated coverage on the official maps. The maps also don’t take into account the quality of the connection, whether it’s through satellite, fixed wireless, coaxial cable, or fiber. An entire community in one county could be listed as having wireless or satellite high-speed internet access, but if they’re in a valley where the beams don’t reach, that access won’t be very useful.

These shoddy maps have enraged both Republicans and Democrats in Congress. “The current maps used to allocate resources are woefully inaccurate and result in overbuilding in some areas while other areas remain unserved or underserved,” Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH) wrote in The Hill on Thursday. Just last month, the House Energy and Commerce Committee — of which Latta is a member — overwhelmingly approved a bill that would make it illegal for telecoms to “willfully, knowingly, or recklessly submit inaccurate broadband service data.” The bill is still waiting for a vote on the floor and in the Senate.

Josh Byrnes, the general manager of Osage Municipal Utilities, has spent the last four years trying to fix his area’s connectivity problem.

Osage, Iowa, is a town of around 3,500 people, only two dozen miles south of the Minnesota border. It’s one of the few municipalities in all of Iowa that has its own public gas, electricity, and telecommunications services. Byrnes knows everyone in Osage and the surrounding areas, giving two-fingered waves as he rolls through the neighborhood in his white Ford.

Osage now has broadband but Mitchell, only a five-minute drive north, is one of those communities that is going without. But after months of work by Byrnes and nearly $400,000, the small village will soon be hooked up.

Surprisingly, the money is not coming from the FCC, but from the Department of Agriculture. Earlier this January, the USDA announced Osage would receive a $397,749 grant through the department’s Reconnect program to run fiber to Mitchell. Byrnes applied for that grant after spending countless hours knocking on his neighbors’ doors, getting to know their needs and families, and discovering that Osage didn’t have the resources it needed to expand into their area all on its own.

“If I hadn’t got that USDA grant, there was nobody that was coming to give those people internet. It was never going to happen,” Byrnes says. “When I submitted that grant, I said, I’m gonna cry either way. I’m gonna cry if I get it, and I’m gonna cry if I don’t get it.”

Starting this spring, Osage Municipal Utilities will start putting that money to good use, supplying broadband to farms, businesses, and households in the underserved areas of Mitchell County. Byrnes calls it a “game changer” for the village and its businesses.

One of Mitchell’s businesses, the Art of Education, was founded by Jessica and Derek Balsley in 2011. After several years working as an art teacher in Iowa, Jessica Balsley scouted around the country for a masters program focused on art education, but she came up short. So she and her husband got to work creating their own accredited university, built entirely online. But living in Mitchell made that already difficult task almost impossible, thanks to Verizon HomeFusion.

“You couldn’t have your video meetings. You couldn’t sync terabytes of data,” Derek Balsley says. So the Balsleys were forced to uproot their business from Mitchell and bring it to Osage.

“We’d love to have a beautiful university building in a rural setting like Mitchell, but the problem is that you just can’t have the connectivity and the high-speed access to make it happen,” Derek Balsley tells The Verge. “For anybody who is interested in saving our rural areas, there is probably nothing more important that would allow these rural areas to thrive like they used to except the internet.”

This isn’t the first time politicians have made big promises about rural broadband. As part of his 2016 campaign, Donald Trump promised a trillion-dollar infrastructure package that would, in part, fund broadband build-outs in small towns like Osage, Mitchell, and Winterset. But after half a dozen false starts, that infrastructure deal ended up taking a back seat to tax cuts, the abortive Obamacare repeal effort, and the ongoing immigration fight. If any families like the Balsleys had counted on Trump’s infrastructure package, they’re still waiting.

The biggest progress made during the past four years has come from FCC chairman Ajit Pai. In a meeting last Thursday, the FCC voted to approve a program called the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund to succeed its Connect America Fund that came before it. RDOF creates a pot of more than $20 billion for cooperatives, satellite operators, and other telecoms to compete for in order to support broadband projects in unserved areas across the country.

But the rebranded broadband program hasn’t won everyone over. Commissioner Geoffrey Starks, one of the two Democratic FCC commissioners, dissented to the RDOF order, saying the current version excludes “any area that the Commission ‘know[s] to be awarded funding through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s ReConnect Program or other similar federal or state broadband subsidy programs, or those subject to enforceable broadband deployment obligations.” At Thursday’s meeting, Chairman Ajit Pai said RDOF would ban big companies that already have buildout goals they promised to meet but never did, but the uncertainty puts smaller telecoms like Osage in a difficult spot.

At the rallies and town halls, Democrats are promising that things will be different when they’re in charge, and most of what they’re promising is money. Joe Biden has pledged to invest $20 billion into rural broadband, if elected. Pete Buttigieg is offering $80 billion, with a promise to fund locally owned networks where their big telecoms fall short. Sanders has pledged as much as $150 billion, as part of his Green New Deal plan, that would flow to “publicly owned and democratically controlled, co-operative, or open access broadband networks.” But like any campaign promise, it’s not clear how much of that money will get through Congress, and there’s a growing anxiety among experts that money alone isn’t enough.

“You can’t just throw money at this”

“You can’t just throw money at this,” Harold Feld, senior vice president at Public Knowledge, tells The Verge. “We’re now having huge scandals about companies like Frontier and Centurylink that took the money but didn’t provide the service.”

Some plans would go further than just money. Proposals from Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders would preempt any state laws that ban local communities from building their own municipal and public networks. The plans would also send their money ($85 billion and $150 billion respectively) directly to electricity and telephone cooperatives, nonprofits, tribes, local governments, and municipal networks like Osage.

There are already programs like Lifeline that put money directly into the hands of consumers. This approach makes the customers more valuable to carriers because they’re able to pay for more access than they were before — and in theory, lets them hold the companies accountable for the speeds low-income Americans receive. But smaller cooperatives like Osage say they know their communities far better than Verizon and AT&T.

“Verizon is accountable to its shareholders,” Feld says. “It’s better if you get someone who’s in the community, because they’re doing this because they know the people.”

And 5G, the technology many believe will reshape how rural communities access the internet, doesn’t change the economics. Wireless towers are still hooked up to the rest of the internet through high-capacity cables and wires. In areas like Mitchell, homes can be miles apart, some on top of hills, some deep in valleys, and this landscape dramatically affects their connectivity. If wireless is unavailable to them, they often opt for satellite services like Windstream and HughesNet that can be choppy and not live up to the speeds the companies promise.

“My concern is that we don’t make policy prematurely,” Gigi Sohn, tech policy fellow at Georgetown Law, said at a hearing on rural connectivity last week. “There’s lots of talk about the ‘Race to 5G,’ but 5G is a marathon, not a sprint. 5G is coming, but it’s unwise to make broadband policy based on what 5G might be.”

In Osage, at least, broadband access has led to a swell in new business. Byrnes says former residents have started coming back to build businesses. Riding around northern Iowa, Byrnes dreamed about everything the area could become if Osage Municipal Utilities, or any telecom for that matter, could connect the households and businesses that line the streets and highways.

“There’s a beautiful trail system here,” Byrnes says. “But who would want to eat and drink at this restaurant if they can’t watch the Super Bowl?”You really need to lock down your Trello boards... right now
Getty Images / WIRED

It’s a window into ordinary family life. The busy Californian mother needed to exchange the queen air mattress they had recently bought because it had a hole in it. She needed a new broom and dustpan that she was planning to get from a home furnishings shop – the same one she planned to return the pillow cases she didn’t want, and the empty Sodastream gas canisters to exchange for new ones. She had to go to the supermarket, where she wanted to pick up a bag of pecans and some canned crab, as well as get the horn and sunglasses holder of her car fixed. Then she needed to take her daughter to their paediatrician on Wednesday. So she posted it on Trello. And, without her realising, the world could see how she lived.

The owner of this highly personal Trello board – whose name we are withholding, and some details of which we have changed to prevent identification, alongside reporting to Trello – is one of a huge number of users unwittingly leaking personal data to the public by not closing access to their boards.

Advertisement

Trello has taken over the world, helping people – including, full disclosure, the staff of WIRED – keep track of their workflow and tasks they need to do. Millions of Trello boards exist on the internet. By default, when a user sets up a Trello board, the data within is private (where “only board members can see and edit this board”). However, users can make their boards public – and Trello warns that “anyone on the internet (including Google) can see this board.”

Sophos’s director of security operations, Craig Jones, first spotted users were ignoring that warning when he tried Trello to organise various aspects of his life. “I realised when you created a board, you could opt to have it public very easily – and it wasn’t very obvious it was public.” He put a unique name on one of his boards and waited a day, then searched for it on Google. His board turned up. “I said, if I can find my board in there, there’s obviously other boards.”

Read next Europe has a plan to break Google and Amazon's cloud dominance Europe has a plan to break Google and Amazon's cloud dominance

He’s since found details of companies’ payroll, administrative tasks, passwords and private business decisions all there on public Trello board, available for anyone to see. He’s uncovered HIPAA (US Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) data, which contains private information about people’s healthcare, and credit card repayment details. Jones has signed various non-disclosure agreements after reporting the existence of Trello data with large companies which prevents him from talking about some of the more concerning data he’s found by trawling through Google.

But he doesn’t necessarily believe fault lies with Trello. “They’re stuck between a rock and a hard place,” he says. “These tools are so accessible to people. They’re accessible to people who don’t necessarily understand their full function, and their accessibility is also a curse in some senses.” He compares it to blaming the manufacturer for crashing a car: the user is still at fault.

Advertisement

“The thing about Trello is that it suffers from a lot of the problems some of the original mySQL databases have, which is it was designed for one thing and used for another,” says Chris Vickery, director of cyber risk research at UpGuard. “It was designed for team collaboration and the public-facing side of it wasn’t supposed to hold super sensitive data, but people started putting sensitive data in things that are publicly available.” Trello confirmed it doesn’t monitor user-generated content on its boards, and said that making private boards that contained the word “password” would unintentionally shut down some boards that reference the word “password” as a false positive.

“User error” is often a convenient excuse for bad design, but in this instance the fault most definitely does lie with humans, says Abigail McAlpine of the University of Huddersfield’s Secure Societies Institute. “The defaults are usually in favour of privacy on Trello,” she explains. “What happens is they usually share them too freely or don’t understand how to change their privacy settings to add members of teams.” One major point of friction is users’ thriftiness. In March 2019, Trello instigated a ten-board limit on its free plan for those who wanted to collaborate as a team. “Because of the limitation, they need to pay for that further access, and usually people don’t want to pay for things,” says McAlpine. “The easy way of doing it is to make it public and not list it anywhere, but that raises issues like this.”

WIRED, in conjunction with Jones, has seen Trello boards containing usernames and passwords for a real estate company’s social media accounts, another property agency’s detailed list of issues with properties, including specific addresses and names, and one Thai hotelier whose Trello board included a list of staff members, including their names, contact details, bank account, personal remarks about their work ethic and salaries.

Read next How to securely wipe anything from your Android, iPhone or PC How to securely wipe anything from your Android, iPhone or PC

The discoveries are similar to issues around Amazon’s AWS S3 buckets, online storage areas where organisations hold data that are set to be private by default, but can be made public by account holders. “A lot of people don’t necessarily understanding they are remaking it available to the entire internet,” says Vickery.

Advertisement

Trello co-founder Michael Pryor remephasises that all Trello boards are set to private by default and adds that the service has “built in safeguards” to confirm if someone really wants to make a board publically visible. “In addition, visibility settings are displayed persistently on the top of every board,” he adds.

The easiest way to solve the problem is to ensure that your Trello boards are set to private – all of them. “One of the most interesting things is that people have dumped their entire life in Trello then abandoned it,” says Jones. “If you really wanted to know some stuff about someone, that stuff is there.” If you come across information that is open that shouldn’t be, contact Trello as Jones does. The company will then make the private board public and inform the user.

And, more fundamentally, avoid putting any information you wouldn’t want to end up in public view on the internet in the first place – not just on Trello, but any digital service. “Even if something says it’s private, you don’t know who is working at these companies and who has access to this stuff. You’re not vetting the employers, administrators or subcontractors,” says Vickery. “Assume that what you put up on a Trello board – even if it says private – can become public, just like any other service, very easily.”

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedInDon't like wearable tech? Get your bedroom to track you instead
Rami Niemi

“To know thyself is the beginning of wisdom”. Soon, however, that wisdom will not come from watches and rings that we wrap on our bodies, but the very walls and spaces we inhabit. Previously, information such as heart-rate, emotional state and cognitive and physical stress was collected by wearable devices – now we are able to measure them via sensors in the space itself.

A single space will be a dynamic extension of our own psyches. Ubiquitous sensing in our environments paired with machine learning will transform how we interact with our spaces and how they interact with each of us. By becoming extensions of ourselves, such spaces will help us to be more effective and successful in what we are trying to accomplish, as well as turning a single physical space into one that dynamically serves many purposes for multiple people.

Advertisement

In 2020, we will see our spaces evolve as technological partners that may know more about us than we do. It will change the most intimate definition and relationship of how we interact with and think about the materials and information in the walls and air around us.

The reactive and empathetic technological brain of our spaces will rely on the amalgamation of data from sensors that track proximity, CO2, our bodies’ thermal dynamics, emotion, eye gaze and diameter, humidity, temperature, motion, light, pressure, ultrasound and microphones learning and gaining insight into our cognitive and physical wellness from the dynamics and spectral changes of our voices and ambient environments.

Read next How China's coronavirus outbreak started, explained How China's coronavirus outbreak started, explained

The output of these sensors will be paired with machine learning and AI assessment, allowing our spaces to understand changes in our emotions. For example: my research group at Dolby Laboratories has been able to show changes in the density of CO2 in a space can correspond with changes in emotion and stress of individuals in the room. Combining this with input from other sensors, such as heart rate and thermal cameras, we can show that changes in the thermal signature correspond to shifts in an individual’s engagement and attention.

This sort of personal information will prompt rooms to adapt and modify their temperature, colour, sound and ambient and natural lighting to best support what the individual is trying accomplish. Perhaps that’s morphing into a space that helps us reach an effective flow state, or it may be one that inches us closer to calm or helps us to have more effective sleep.

Advertisement

Smart-mattress innovators such as BRYTE have incorporated “empathetic” technology that uses biometrics to modify the temperature and firmness of its mattress to dynamically improve a user’s sleep. Its system already enables integration to Hue lighting and Nest temperature controls, extending and connecting optimisation of the user’s internal state and goal of improved sleep into the dynamics of the room and space.

We will see elders, who would otherwise be in care facilities, empowered to live autonomously because their emotional and physical wellbeing are more transparent and better protected. This has the impact of improving their quality of life and saving the individual substantial costs.

Numerous companies are introducing technologies that will empower individuals through walls and spaces that listen, inform, and aid the mind and body. Both Nokia and IBM have significant efforts to use sensors that are easily introduced or already inhabit spaces to improve and extend the quality and autonomy of living for an ageing population. IBM has even been evaluating applications of LiDAR in the home as a way of tracking location and changes in gait associated with shifts in emotional and physical well being.

Read next How to dodge the beef bender and keep your January detox going How to dodge the beef bender and keep your January detox going

Establishing trusted and compliant data privacy protocols for exchange, use, and a transparent data lifecycle is critical. This is a topic under discussion, with many governments establishing regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act (going into effect in 2020), as well as many companies making earnest commitments to design with privacy in mind.

Advertisement

2020 will mark a sea change in what we expect from our rooms. Rather than living our lives in static spaces and moving to new spaces when we change our goals and intent, our spaces will start to change with us and help us be more successful.

Poppy Crum is chief scientist at Dolby Laboratories and an adjunct professor at Stanford University.

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn