Coronavirus: China accuses US of causing panic and 'spreading fear'
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The BBC's online health editor on what we know about the virus

The Chinese government has accused the US of causing "panic" in its response to the deadly coronavirus outbreak.

It follows the US decision to declare a public health emergency and deny entry to foreign nationals who had visited China in the past two weeks.

There are more than 17,000 confirmed cases of the virus in China. Some 361 people have died there.

Outside China, there are more than 150 confirmed cases of the virus - and one death, in the Philippines.

The virus causes severe acute respiratory infection and symptoms seem to start with a fever, followed by a dry cough.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Shanghai is unusually quiet as businesses temporarily close and people choose to stay inside

On Monday, a study by a Chinese virologist said a pneumonia outbreak associated with the coronavirus had likely started in bats.

The outbreak took its toll on Chinese shares when markets reopened on Monday following the Lunar New Year holiday. The Shanghai Composite index closed nearly 8% lower, its biggest daily drop for more than four years.

What measures has the US taken?

On 23 January, the US ordered the departure of all non-emergency US personnel and their family members from the city of Wuhan in Hubei province, where the virus originated.

Less than a week later, the US allowed for the voluntary departure of non-emergency personnel and relatives of US government employees from China.

On 30 January, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared a global health emergency over the new virus.

Following this, the US ordered the departure of all US personnel family members under the age of 21 in China.

Any US citizen who has been in Hubei province will be subject to 14 days' quarantine upon returning to the US.

What are other countries doing to stem the outbreak?

On Monday, Hong Kong said it was suspending from midnight local time (16:00 GMT) 10 out of 13 border crossings with mainland China.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Indonesians evacuated from Wuhan are sprayed with disinfectant

Various countries have imposed varying travel restrictions and other preventative measures, including:

Denying entry to all foreign visitors who have recently been to China: US, Australia, Singapore

Denying entry to foreigners travelling from mainland China: New Zealand, Israel. (Russia will also apply these restrictions, though not through Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport)

will also apply these restrictions, though not through Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport) Denying entry to foreigners who have visited Hubei province: Japan, South Korea

Temporarily suspending all flights to mainland China: Egypt, Finland, Indonesia, the UK, Italy

Closing the border with China: Mongolia, Russia (partially)

The body that represents some of the world's largest cruise ship operators, the Cruise Lines International Association, announced on Monday that passengers and crew members who had recently travelled to China would not be allowed to board vessels.

How did China react to the US measures?

In a news briefing on Monday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said the US actions "could only create and spread fear" instead of offering assistance.

She said the US was the first country to impose a travel ban on Chinese travellers and the first to suggest a partial withdrawal of its embassy staff.

"It is precisely developed countries like the US with strong epidemic prevention capabilities... that have taken the lead in imposing excessive restrictions contrary to WHO recommendations," Ms Hua said, according to a Reuters report.

But Ms Hua also said that China urgently needed "medical masks, protective suits and safety goggles".

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Aerial time-lapse shows a Wuhan hospital being built in 10 days

Do the travel bans work?

Global health officials have advised against the bans.

The WHO has warned that closing borders could even accelerate the spread of the virus, if travellers enter countries unofficially.

"Travel restrictions can cause more harm than good by hindering info-sharing, medical supply chains and harming economies," the head of the WHO, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said last week.

The WHO instead recommends introducing screening at border crossings.

On Monday, Dr Tedros again praised China for its commitment to fighting the coronavirus, stressing that the only way to defeat it was for all countries to work together "in a spirit of co-operation".

How deadly is the virus?

More than 75,000 people may have been infected in the city of Wuhan, experts say.

But estimates by the University of Hong Kong suggest the total number of cases could be far higher than the official figures.

A report on the early stages of the outbreak by the Lancet medical journal said most patients who died from the virus had pre-existing conditions.

The report found that, of the first 99 patients treated at the Jinyintan Hospital in Wuhan, 40 had a weak heart or damaged blood vessels. A further 12 had diabetes.

Most people infected are likely to fully recover - just as they would from a normal flu.

An expert at China's National Health Commission (NHC) said that one week was sufficient for a recovery from mild coronavirus symptoms.

How has the coronavirus outbreak affected you? Has your family been affected? What about your business or your travel plans? You can share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.

Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:Yemen's medical air bridge offers rare glimpse of hope
Image caption Raghad is on a short list of 30 patients set to fly out of Sanaa as part of a "medical air bridge"

Peals of laughter bounced off the bright yellow walls of an inflatable castle, and the click-clack of children playing air hockey pierced the air.

Thirteen-year old Raghad pushed the plastic puck with all the strength she could muster from her delicate frame. The hint of a smile peeked from her protective face mask.

"She's always been the smartest girl in her class," her father Abdullah proudly informed me as we sat in the garden of a Sanaa hotel where their family and dozens of others have waited months for a long-promised UN flight to get medical care abroad.

"Her health became worse and worse while we waited here," he said with frustration. "Doctors here don't have the capabilities to treat her."

"I love her," Abdullah sighed, his voice breaking mid-sentence. "When she grows up she wants to be a doctor to specialise in orthopaedics to help children just like her."

Image copyright EPA Image caption Sanaa has been controlled by the rebel Houthi movement since late 2014

Raghad, who is suffering from cancer, is on a short list of 30 patients set to fly out of Sanaa International Airport as part of this medical air bridge for civilians suffering from conditions that cannot be treated inside Yemen.

A small UN plane carrying the first seven patients left on Monday.

It is a small but significant crack in a more than three-year-long blockade of civilian flights by a Saudi-led coalition backing Yemen's government in its war with the rebel Houthi movement.

If all goes as planned, a series of flights, carrying patients and their caregivers, will leave for Amman and Cairo this month.

Image copyright Reuters Image caption The first seven patients and their carers left Sanaa on a UN plane on Monday

"It's a major breakthrough," said Lise Grande, the UN's resident humanitarian co-ordinator. "It's taken two years of intensive discussions, asking the parties to agree on the modalities."

"It shows that people really do care what happens to Yemenis, they care," she explained when we meet in a heavily guarded UN compound in Sanaa, which is controlled by the Houthis.

It also shows how the littlest and most vulnerable are caught in the poisonous webs spun by a merciless war lurching towards its fifth year.

There are two other international airports in southern Yemen, controlled by the Yemeni government. But they are 15 to 20 hours away from Sanaa on rutted roads winding through mountain passes, threaded by checkpoints of rival fighters.

Image copyright AFP Image caption Monday's flight has been described as a major breakthrough in Yemen's war

Days before the first medical air bridge flight, we were taken to an eerily empty Sanaa International Airport.

Houthi leader Mohammed Ali al-Houthi took to this stage, hoisting himself into the back of a pick-up bristling with AK-47 rifles to artfully seize the moment of a rare visit by a foreign news team.

"We brought you to this airport to show you it was targeted, and is now blocked," he declared.

A World Food Programme plane taxied down the runway - only a handful of aid flights are cleared by the coalition, which controls Yemen's air space.

The wreckage of a civilian aircraft, reportedly destroyed in 2016 by a Saudi air strike, was a sprawl of twisted metal sprawled across the edge of the tarmac.

Inside a deserted departures hall only stray cats padded across the gleaming floor. The upstairs lounge was covered in a layer of fine dust, more than three years thick.

Image caption Mohammed Ali al-Houthi rejected a coalition proposal to route flights via Aden or Saudi Arabia

Over the past year, the coalition proposed a way out: divert flights via Bisha airport in south-western Saudi Arabia or Aden in southern Yemen to allow aircraft to be searched.

"This airport has its own security procedures, which means civilian aircraft cannot carry weapons," asserted Mr Houthi. "There are satellites, and they have their own spies on the ground, so if there's any movement in Sanaa airport, they can prove it with photos."

The coalition proposal would downgrade Sanaa to a local airport. For the men in charge in Sanaa, sovereignty trumps everything, even human lives.

"We are sovereign and independent and won't be a servant to anyone." Mr Houthi added with a flourish as he strode away to continue this warzone tour.

Saudi Arabia's military spokesman, Col Turki al-Malki, has described the "Flights of Mercy" as a "humanitarian initiative".

"It was also a political concession from the Saudis," said a source involved in the lengthy deliberations. "Senior Saudi officials personally intervened to make this happen."

Image copyright NurPhoto via Getty Images Image caption The warring parties have released prisoners as a confidence-building measure

The medical air bridge was given the go-ahead as part of Saudi Arabia's reported shift to de-escalate tensions. That has included holding secret talks with the Houthis, which have been shaken by an upsurge in fighting.

There has also been a frustrating search for countries willing to accept Yemeni patients. Expenses will be borne by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the charity International SOS, but there was worry about families overstaying their welcome.

All the while patients were kept waiting, their conditions getting worse. And the list of patients on a waiting list is said to number more than 30,000.

"When we called families this time to tell them there'd be flights in February, some hung up on us, or angrily informed us the patient had died," a frustrated WHO official told me as she clutched a bulging stack of medical files.

Image caption Abdullah Thawaba said it was very difficult to be a doctor in Sanaa

Even doctors at Yemen's only cancer hospital lost hope there would ever be a flight. They stopped making lists of the most urgent cases.

"Many children are dying because they can't travel abroad," said Dr Abdullah Thawaba, director of the National Oncology Centre. "Every year we receive 700 children and some die because they can't get treated abroad."

At this hospital, even the carers need care.

"It's very, very difficult to be a doctor here," Dr Thawaba admitted. "Sometimes we all feel really depressed because we can't give our patients the treatment they need."

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dr Abdullah Thawaba said Yemen's only cancer hospital cannot give children the treatment they need

Six-year-old Muthea wore a plastic spider man watch on his spindly arm, and there was a tiny teddy bear on the striped woollen beanie shielding his bald head.

But there was nothing fun about his vacant stare.

Muthea's father, perched on his son's bed, also wore sadness like a heavy coat.

"Muthea has stomach cancer and can't sleep at night because of his pain," he said.

They have travelled the long road to Sanaa from a town near the embattled port city of Hudaydah on the Red Sea coast.

"It amounts to a death sentence," said Sultana Begum of the Norwegian Refugee Council, which has campaigned for years on this issue. "The use of a blockade has prevented thousands of sick Yemenis from leaving the country for urgent care, and stopped medicines and equipment from getting in."

Image caption Muthea cannot sleep at night because of his pain

At a sprawling Sanaa cemetery, 17-year-old Awab washed his father's grave and placed fresh flowers on the dull, grey stone.

"My father had cirrhosis of the liver for 13 years," he said. "But then he couldn't find the medicine and his condition got worse and worse."

"For two years, they kept promising he would be on a UN flight," he added bitterly.

Image caption Awab said his father died while awaiting medical evacuation

This medical air bridge is a glimpse of hope in the world's worst humanitarian crisis - a hope so rare, many still fear it won't proceed as planned.HIV vaccine hopes dashed by trial results
Image copyright Getty Images

Hopes have been dashed an experimental vaccine could protect people against HIV, the virus that causes Aids.

The National Institutes of Health has stopped its HVTN 702 trial, of more than 5,000 people in South Africa, as it found the jab did not prevent HIV.

Experts expressed "deep disappointment" but added the search for a preventive HIV vaccine must continue.

Such vaccines do not contain HIV and therefore do not pose any danger of giving HIV to an individual.

What was the vaccine?

The jab was a new version of the first HIV-vaccine candidate shown to provide some protection against the virus - in the RV144 clinical trial, in Thailand.

There are many different strains of HIV and the vaccine had been adapted to the subtype most common is South Africa, which has one of the highest HIV rates in the world.

There were great hopes that the vaccine would work and it could then be adapted to cover other strains of HIV circulating in other parts of the world.

What happened in the trial?

Volunteers were randomly assigned to receive either the vaccine or placebo injections.

And preliminary data showed:

129 HIV infections among the vaccine recipients

123 HIV infections among those given the dummy jab

Dr Anthony Fauci, from the NIH, said: "An HIV vaccine is essential to end the global pandemic and we hoped this vaccine candidate would work. Regrettably, it does not."

"Research continues on other approaches to a safe and effective HIV vaccine, which I still believe can be achieved."

Linda-Gail Bekker from the International Aids Society said: "Whilst this is a significant setback for the field, we need to continue the quest for a preventive vaccine."

There is still hope other HIV vaccines in development may work.

How can HIV be stopped?

A drug treatment called pre-exposure prophylaxis (Prep) is effective at preventing HIV infection but, unlike a vaccine, it needs to be taken regularly, even daily.

In countries where such treatments may not be available, the only effective prevention remains using condoms during sexual intercourse - or abstinence.

Recent breakthroughs in anti-retroviral treatments have improved the lifespan of people with HIV.

Debbie Laycock, Head of Policy at Terrence Higgins Trust said: "Through regular testing, condoms, Prep and effective treatment which means people living with HIV can't pass on the virus - we now have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to end the HIV epidemic. It's vital we seize this."Impeachment trial: Senators to give speeches explaining their votes after closing arguments Monday
(CNN) The House impeachment managers and President Donald Trump's legal team will have a final chance Monday to make their pitch to any senators still on the fence about the verdict in the President's impeachment trial, even if the outcome is a forgone conclusion.

The impeachment managers and defense counsel are making their closing arguments for two hours each on Monday to summarize their case, starting with the House managers. The Senate is poised to acquit Trump when it takes a final vote on Wednesday at 4 p.m. ET. But there still is some uncertainty over the margin of the acquittal vote — and whether any senators cross party lines.

The end-game of the trial is set this week after the Senate voted last week to defeat a motion for subpoenaing witnesses and documents, which would have extended the proceedings. In that vote, which failed 49-51, two Republicans, Sens. Mitt Romney of Utah and Susan Collins of Maine, joined with Democrats.

A handful of senators in both parties have still not said whether they will vote to convict or acquit the President on the two articles of impeachment — abuse of power and obstruct of Congress — that the House passed in December.

On the Republican side, Collins, Romney and Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska are being eyed by Democrats as possible crossovers.

Read MoreThe Democrats' new online troll fighters make 2020 debut in Iowa
"[U]se any opportunity to criticize Hillary and the rest (except Sanders and Trump — we support them)," they read.

The guidance had been circulated among a group of Russians who were covertly running a vast network of social media accounts seeking to divide Democrats and push the candidacy of Donald Trump. (The instructions were later found during special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.)

Four years later, unhappy with Silicon Valley's efforts to curb the manipulation of its platforms, the Democratic Party has developed capabilities of its own to monitor and tackle online disinformation.

The effort reflects Democrats' growing discontent with Silicon Valley executives like Mark Zuckerberg and highlights concerns that viral disinformation could have an impact on this year's election.

"It's like algorithmic wars here, it's kind of crazy," a Democratic National Committee staffer who works on the Democrats' new counter disinformation team said on Saturday as preparations were underway in Des Moines. The staffer asked not to be identified due to the nature of their work and possibly being subjected to online harassment themselves.

"Both Republicans and foreign actors, like Russia, have an incentive to divide the American electorate and may try to use the Iowa Caucus to further that goal," the DNC wrote in a "counter disinformation update" sent to campaigns on Thursday.

Among the new weapons in the Democrats' online arsenal is a monitoring tool called "Trendolizer." When stories from websites known to peddle misinformation mention candidates and begin getting shares on social media, Trendolizer detects it and an alert is sent to the relevant campaigns.

Another tool built in-house at the DNC monitors Twitter traffic. On Monday, it'll watch for misinformation about how and where to caucus. Variations of the word "rigged" had been loaded into system when CNN was shown it Saturday — attempts to undermine legitimate vote results using disinformation is something Democrats are watching out for.

They're also watching out for caucus-related tweets that use the exact same text across multiple accounts — a tactic known as "astroturfing," which is used as part of information operations seeking to flood the zone with a specific message.

Officials from the Iowa Democratic Party plan on posting responses to online activity on caucus night. Additionally, campaigns seeing suspicious activity have been asked to report it to the DNC's counter disinformation team that are in regular contact with representatives from the major social media companies and government agencies.

A former Facebook employee

Overseeing all things technology for the DNC is Nell Thomas. After working data analytics for Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign, Thomas spent more than two years at Facebook before joining the DNC last May.

Her knowledge of how a company like Facebook works from the inside has helped Democrats hold Big Tech's feet to the fire. In December, the DNC released a 2,500-word report assessing how Facebook, Twitter and Google (which owns YouTube) tackle disinformation. The report criticized Facebook for not promoting content from authoritative news sources.

Nell Thomas, the DNC's chief technology officer and a former Facebook employee, is in Des Moines, Iowa, ahead of Monday's first-in-the-nation caucus.

Thomas says that Facebook's internal incentive structure, which she says is still primarily driven by engagement numbers, creates "blind spots" for Facebook staff when thinking of the long-term effects of their platform and its impact on elections.

A Facebook spokesperson pointed CNN Sunday to comments made by Zuckerberg who said that the company had made some changes in 2018 that resulted in a drop in overall engagement as the company wants to make sure people's time on the platform is "well-spent."

The spokesperson added Facebook has teams dedicated to election and civic integrity whose goals are not based around engagement metrics.

Thomas says many of her former Facebook colleagues are good, kind and thoughtful people, but she fundamentally disagrees with the company's refusal to fact-check ads from politicians. The DNC has previously said that Facebook's policy letting politicians to lie in ads would allow President Trump to mislead the American people "unimpeded.

Robby Mook, Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign manager, says misinformation makes Facebook money.

When the company refused to take down a doctored video of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi last year , "it was clear they do not feel responsible for what goes on their platform," Mook told CNN on Saturday.

"It's like a polluter who wants to dump toxic waste in a river and is happy to take home a profit but thinks they don't have to pay for cleanup," he added.

Tech companies, particularly Facebook, have gone to some lengths to try to show they are doing something.

Ahead of the 2018 midterm election, Facebook's communications team paraded national media through the company's "election war room."

The war room, Facebook says, will be up and running for Monday's Iowa caucuses but is now called the "election operations center." The company will be in touch with local election officials in Iowa, federal agencies, and indeed, the Democratic Party.

But much of that work has been overshadowed by two aforementioned decisions: refusal to remove a doctored video of Speaker Pelosi and a refusal to fact-check ads from politicians.

Since 2016, Twitter, Google and YouTube have also all made efforts to counter manipulation of their platforms with a focus around elections.

Tech companies now meet a few times a year with government agencies, including the FBI and DHS, to discuss election integrity efforts. The most recent meeting, details of which have not previously been reported, was hosted at Microsoft's and LinkedIn's offices in Sunnyvale, California, in December, CNN has learned.

Russia's disinformation efforts targeting the US were discussed, but so too were threats from Iran and Chinese disinformation efforts targeting protesters in Hong Kong, a person familiar with direct knowledge of the meeting told CNN.

Presidential misinformation

In recent weeks the DNC told campaigns that "hashtags casting 2020 presidential candidates in a negative light" had reached Twitter's coveted trending section.

Engaging with the hashtags, even to push back against them, could help promote them further, the DNC warned. The committee instead advised campaigns to encourage surrogates "to promote a positive alternative" hashtags.

While the DNC sends presidential campaigns information about what is being said about their candidates from conspiracy sites and trolls, the normal advice to campaigns is not to engage.

Following narratives from the internet's underbelly, however, can help provide context and the ability to more appropriately respond when fringe conspiracies reach a tipping point and make it to the mainstream.

In 2016, the "Pizzagate" conspiracy theory led to an armed man showing up at a Washington, DC, pizza shop. Believers imagined a pedophilia ring supposedly being run out of the pizza ship that somehow involved Hillary Clinton and other Democrats.

Since 2016, there have been multiple congressional hearings about the challenges posed by misinformation and disinformation.

Though often used interchangably, there is a difference between "disinformation" and "misinformation." Misinformation is simply information that is wrong; people spreading it may believe it is correct. Disinformation is intentional — it is created and spread by people who know it is not correct.

The distinction is one only of intent — both result in the public being misinformed and so Democrats are also using their monitoring systems to engage with their supporters who may be unintentionally spreading false information.

A possible example of misinformation came late last month when some Democrats began tweeting that the DNC was changing caucus locations without telling supporters, Mandy McClure, the Iowa Democratic Party's communications director, stepped in to say every campaign is notified of any changes.

Highlighting the scale of the challenge, the tweet with the misinformation was retweeted more than 1,000 times, while McClure's tweet had almost no engagement.

The DNC's counter disinformation has already had some wins — it has identified coordinated accounts that the social media platforms have removed, as CNN has previously reported . But the DNC staffer CNN spoke to Saturday said that their biggest challenge will likely not come from anonymous bots and blogs.

"The most powerful person in the country is a disinformation agent," he said, exasperated.Spider biologist denies suspicions of widespread data fraud in his animal personality research
Spider biologist denies suspicions of widespread data fraud in his animal personality research

It’s been a bad couple of weeks for behavioral ecologist Jonathan Pruitt—the holder of one of the prestigious Canada 150 Research Chairs—and it may get a lot worse. What began with questions about data in one of Pruitt’s papers has flared into a social media–fueled scandal in the small field of animal personality research, with dozens of papers on spiders and other invertebrates being scrutinized by scores of students, postdocs, and other co-authors for problematic data.

Already, two papers co-authored by Pruitt, now at McMaster University, have been retracted for data anomalies; Biology Letters is expected to expunge a third within days. And the more Pruitt’s co-authors look, the more potential data problems they find. All papers using data collected or curated by Pruitt, a highly productive researcher who specialized in social spiders, are coming under scrutiny and those in his field predict there will be many retractions. The furor has even earned a Twitter hashtag—#PruittData.

Yet even one of the researchers who initially probed Pruitt’s data cautions that what has happened remains unclear. “There is no hard evidence that [Pruitt’s] data are fabricated,” says behavioral ecologists Niels Dingemanse of Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU).

As for Pruitt, he’s in the middle of 4 months of fieldwork in Australia and the South Pacific and insists there has been no data fabrication or fraud, saying the data issues are all mistakes. “These errors are not unheard of in data management,” he told Science Insider in a phone call on Thursday night U.S. time, his first interview since the retractions. Nonetheless, “If a scientist can’t be careful, that’s as big an indictment as someone who goes around and adjusts data. … I appreciate the amount of time people have spent to navigate this situation fairly.”

But Pruiit's excuse doesn’t wash for Daniel Bolnick, editor-in-chief of The American Naturalist, given what he says is being discovered in raw data files. “Pruitt’s explanation strikes me as ludicrously blasé about the extent of the concerns,” he says. “The extent of the problems is hard to reconcile with accidents.

A McMaster University spokesperson said the university is “aware of allegations regarding Jonathan Pruitt” but declined further comment on the matter. A University of California Santa Barbara spokesperson also says the school is aware of the allegations regarding Pruitt, who left a faculty position there in October 2018 for Canada. "While we cannot discuss specific cases, maintaining the highest degree of integrity in all research endeavors is essential to our mission. We have robust procedures on our campus to address instances of research misconduct, and we would cooperate with any other institution conducting an investigation," she noted in an email.

As divisive as retractions can be, behavioral ecologists are hoping to control the damage to their field’s reputation by being open about their investigations, detailing them on blogs and social media. “It might taint the field, but it’s something we will just have to weather,” says Leigh Simmons, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Western Australia. Even outsiders to the field are taking notice of the attempt at transparency. “It is very, very hard to prevent fraud (if that is what happened here) but [the response] should be a model for responding to it,” Seth Finnegan, a paleobiologist at the University of California (UC), Berkeley, tweeted.

Although some researchers have tweeted that the affair reflects the lack of scientific rigor in animal behavioral studies—and in particular, the documentation of animal personalities, Pruitt’s colleagues summarily reject that. “It’s a gross overstatement to say this is now the death of the field,” Dingemanse says.

Last year, a young researcher not in Pruitt’s lab came to behavioral ecologist Tom Tregenza of the University of Exeter with questions about a paper in The American Naturalist co-authored by Pruitt on how animal social interactions strengthen personalities and can help a population survive, using social spiders as a test case. Tregenza recruited Dingemanse and two other colleagues to probe the paper’s data. They ran simulations of the experiments to see whether they could explain how the data might be generated naturally. They could not. “We were simply finding there were too many replicates of the same data points,” Dingemanse says.

He then approached Pruitt’s co-author, Kate Laskowski, a behavioral ecologist at UC Davis, and Bolnick. Laskowski, too, scrutinized the work and found more questionable data, first in that paper and then in two other papers she’d co-authored with Pruitt; he had been the sole source of the animal data for analyses of how social interactions strengthen animal personalities and affect a group’s survival.

Pruitt, who conducted research in the United States funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) for almost 10 years before Canada lured him with a grant of $350,000 annually for 7 years, offered Laskowski and Bolnick several explanations for these anomalies, they say, but ultimately agreed to a retraction of the initial paper, which was announced on 17 January. A few days later, Laskowski tweeted her dismay that other papers she had done with Pruitt were about to face the same fate. “I am not excited to say that there were similar problems in the raw data of another of my papers—this paper is now retracted, too.”

After that first retraction, Bolnick, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Connecticut, Storrs, received dozens of emails, some anonymous, expressing concerns about other papers involving Pruitt. He forwarded those emails to the research integrity office at McMaster and alerted other journals. This week on his blog Eco-Evo, Evo-Eco, he explained his involvement to date and announced the creation of a Google document compiling Pruitt papers being looked at, with details about how the data were collected and now, being newly analyzed. “I’m very concerned that people collaborating with him will be tarred with the same brush,” Bolnick says. “There are definitely papers out there [co-authored by Pruitt] where other people collected the data and I consider those papers to be sound and trustworthy.”

Noa Pinter-Wollman, a behavioral ecologist at UC Los Angeles, is among those suddenly reevaluating her work with Pruitt. Interested in animal interactions and network analysis, she teamed up with Pruitt 5 years ago. He became “a close collaborator and a trusted friend,” she says, and together they’ve published almost 20 papers. Pruitt alerted her to the first retraction 2 weeks ago and she’s been scrambling since then to deal with the news. She’s confident of her and her students’ work and has assurances from others in Pruitt’s lab that their data are sound, “so we are focusing on data collected and curated by Jonathan,” she says. That involves writing computer programs to ferret out data irregularities such as duplicated information or certain sequences of numbers that don’t have the expected randomness. “This is the type of forensics that I never imagined I would have to do,” she says. Already, she’s found three papers she wants to retract and is investigating three more.

She is a cosigner on a public statement released 29 January by Ambika Kamath, a behavioral ecologist at UC Berkeley and former Pruitt postdoc, and Pruitt lab members and collaborators promising to get to the bottom of these problems. “We are working as a community to create a resource about which papers are reliable,” Pinter-Wollman says. “But it’s a tragedy for me. I lost a trusted collaborator.”

I hope that it all turns out that he’s been careless. But if he has falsified data, then he has to pay the price. Susan Riechert, University of Tennessee, Knoxville

Many people are grieving. “I’m devastated,” says Pruitt’s former graduate school adviser, Susan Riechert, a behavioral ecologist at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville; suspicions have also been raised about Pruitt’s Ph.D. thesis on spiders. Outgoing and energetic, Pruitt is considered smart, creative, and collaborative. “He’s very sharing of his work with other people and [with] credits,” Riechert says.

Behavioral ecologists often struggle to get funding for their fieldwork, but Pruitt has been well supported. Since 2014, he has held three grants from NSF, totaling $600,000 and he also has some funding from the U.S. National Institutes of Health. Canada’s selection of him for one of its endowed chairs created for the country’s 150th anniversary seemed to cement him as a young superstar in the field.

Pruitt says he is puzzled by what’s happening. After the initial retraction came out, he tells Science Insider, “Each morning when I woke up, there was a different anonymous email taking issue with a different dataset and a different paper. … Do they think I was just copying and pasting a spreadsheet? I don’t think I would do that.”

At first, he was in the fray tweeting—but no longer. “There are so many voices and they are so loud and diverse, there’s no way to address it.” Instead, he says he’s focusing on his fieldwork, setting insect traps across the South Pacific before and after cyclones hit to learn how different species are affected by these tremendous storms. Last year, he reported on work in which he collected data on spiders before and after a U.S. hurricane. It’s one of the papers now being scrutinized.

Pruitt says he has no expectations that he will be able to continue in behavioral ecology, saying he knows he has lost the trust of his colleagues about his data. But these cyclone data will be useful no matter what happens, he says. “If I’m on fire and my longevity is [short], I will bequeath them to another researcher.” He is concerned, however, that as each retraction happens, even innocuous mistakes in his data or experiments will be cause for more retractions. It’s a worry that Dingemanse shares. Such careful inspection of data will often turn up something, no matter how well collected and compiled, he says. “If you looked at my data [this way], you might also come up with causes for concern,” Dingemanse says.

According to Bolnick, 23 journals are investigating Pruitt’s papers. And the community is feeling its way through the trouble. “Nothing like this has ever happened in our discipline,” says Simmons, who is editor-in-chief of Behavioral Ecology .

Simmons has spent the past 3 days poring over the 11 papers Pruitt has written for his journal, going back to a data repository now mandated by his journal and others to check raw data. Yet he laments that the initial hashtag—#Pruittgate—is too damming and thinks “we need to, as much as we can, avoid a witch hunt.”

Still, even Pruitt’s staunchest supporters want to see the situation resolved. “I hope that it all turns out that he’s been careless,” Riechert says. “But if he has falsified data, then he has to pay the price.”

With reporting by Erik Stokstad.

*Update, 3 February, 9:30 a.m.: This story has been changed to more accurately reflect how concerns about Pruitt's data were first brought to the attention of Dingemanse and his colleagues. An additional quote by Bolnick reacting to the Pruitt interview has also been added.Google will pick your best photos and print them with new trial service
A new subscription service from Google Photos will print and mail you a selection of your photos each month, 9to5Google reports. The service’s $7.99 monthly fee gets you 10 automatically-selected 4 x 6-inch prints, which are picked from the photos you’ve taken over the last 30 days. Google is currently trialing the service in the US, and you can sign up from a promotional banner that’s appearing for some Google Photos users.

Google has been offering physical photo prints for a little while now, but the interesting thing here is that its algorithms will pick which of your photos get printed, rather than relying on you placing individual orders. 9to5Google reports that you have the option of prioritizing photos with “people and pets,” “landscapes,” or “a little bit of everything.” You also have the option of editing your selection before they’re printed each month.

There are three options for which photos get selected

This curation comes at a cost. At this price the photos work out at $0.79 per print, which is more than double the starting price of $0.25 Google charges for photos printed using its Walmart or CVS partnerships. However, the subscription service is definitely less effort than picking individual photos to print yourself.

Physical photos are one of those things that it’s easy to miss out on entirely if you take most of your photos on a smartphone or digital camera and forget to ever get them printed. Personally, the struggle for me is remembering to take photos in the first place, but knowing that I’m going to get charged at the end of each month could be exactly the kind of incentive I need to get snapping.What the Iowa Caucus means for getting Iowa online
If you need to get online in Winterset, Iowa (population 5,200), you head to the library. Free Wi-Fi has been in place for a while, but starting this week, the library is lending out ten Sprint mobile hotspots in hardshell cases, prepped for students and residents who can’t count on connectivity otherwise.

It’s one of the many creative ways local leaders in Winterset have worked to ensure every person in their community has reasonable access to the internet. Kids who live out in the country still go to school in Winterset, and often submit their homework online as part of the district’s one-to-one Chromebook deal. But with only choppy wireless or satellite signals, it’s hard for country kids to hand in their assignments from home.

“Folks in big cities don’t understand that it’s really different here,” says Jean Bosch, director of the Winterset Public Library. “We just don’t have the same access, and it’s not okay.”

Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America

The problem is much bigger than Winterset. In 2016, the FCC estimated more than 24 million Americans lack access to broadband, and even that was probably an underestimate. Two years later, Microsoft ran its own study and found the FCC had vastly underestimated, determining that close to 163 million people were being left out of the push for the faster web. It’s particularly a problem for rural communities, which are ten times more likely to lack broadband access.

In Iowa, it’s been this way for years. According to the commission’s most recent study, only 77 percent of rural Iowans had access to high-speed fixed broadband (25 Mbps down and three up, per FCC standards). That’s only a 17 percent increase over the past five years. Nearly all homes in the urban areas of the state have access to high-speed internet, but rural areas have been slow to catch up, largely because of the sheer expense of connecting them.

“If we had the ability to serve sparsely populated areas with a decent return on investment, we would have all been hooked up already,” Dave Duncan, CEO of the Iowa Communications Alliance, tells The Verge. In some rural communities, Duncan says, a telecom could lay a mile of fiber or coaxial cable and only be able to connect one home.

The traditional telecoms haven’t gotten the rural residents of Winterset online — and what’s left is a patchwork of grants and public programs that can be hard to predict and harder to sustain. And while the Iowa Caucus has brought massive political attention to the small state, little of that attention has gone to the state’s networks. Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America, but it’s still a secondary issue for the candidates, raising uncomfortable questions about how long towns like Winterset may have to wait to join the rest of the country online.

Nine days before the caucuses, people were lined up in eighteen-degree weather outside the Ames City Auditorium to see Sanders with Michael Moore, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and the band Portugal, the Man. For the Sanders supporters, the biggest applause lines were about health care.

“If you are tired of student debt, if you are sick and tired and scared of climate change, if you are disgusted with racism and sexism and homophobia and xenophobia, if you believe that health care is a human right, you can’t sit it out,” Sanders told a crowd of hundreds.

At rallies and town halls across the state this past week, health care, climate change, and education were the top concerns, no matter which candidate was on stage. That’s in line with Gallup polling, which shows infrastructure as thirteenth behind more common concerns like health care, education and economic policy. But the simple question of internet access sits in the background of many of those issues.

Alisha Jenecke, a red-haired home-care worker from West Des Moines, says the main issue that brought her to the Sanders rally was health care. But in her work providing that care, she feels the impact of spotty internet almost every day.

“If my signal is gone, I can’t do my job. I had an internet black hole yesterday in someone’s apartment in the middle of downtown Des Moines,” Jenecke tells The Verge. “It’s super annoying to have to write everything down and then go in later and open up the document and put everything back in later. It’s extra work.”

In more rural areas outside Des Moines, connectivity is an even bigger problem. Jeremy Mostek, the founder of Pyro’s Pride fireworks store in Mitchell, Iowa, has trouble watching videos displaying any new products from his Chinese suppliers before he purchases them and sells them to customers. Some folks in Mitchell never bothered making Facebook or Netflix accounts at all because of a lack of access.

Back in Winterset, a few years ago, the Winterset Public School District put stickers up on local businesses signifying that they were a safe place for students to do their homework if they didn’t have access at home. If the businesses are closed, students sit in their cars outside of restaurants to upload their assignments.

In some ways, it’s the perfect problem for big government to solve. The FCC is already tasked with overseeing America’s network, and the commission already operates a range of programs aimed at bringing the internet to underserved areas. But for whatever reason, those programs haven’t reached places like Winterset.

Part of the problem is information. The FCC’s coverage maps rely on self-reporting from telecoms, which often means exaggerated coverage on the official maps. The maps also don’t take into account the quality of the connection, whether it’s through satellite, fixed wireless, coaxial cable, or fiber. An entire community in one county could be listed as having wireless or satellite high-speed internet access, but if they’re in a valley where the beams don’t reach, that access won’t be very useful.

These shoddy maps have enraged both Republicans and Democrats in Congress. “The current maps used to allocate resources are woefully inaccurate and result in overbuilding in some areas while other areas remain unserved or underserved,” Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH) wrote in The Hill on Thursday. Just last month, the House Energy and Commerce Committee — of which Latta is a member — overwhelmingly approved a bill that would make it illegal for telecoms to “willfully, knowingly, or recklessly submit inaccurate broadband service data.” The bill is still waiting for a vote on the floor and in the Senate.

Josh Byrnes, the general manager of Osage Municipal Utilities, has spent the last four years trying to fix his area’s connectivity problem.

Osage, Iowa, is a town of around 3,500 people, only two dozen miles south of the Minnesota border. It’s one of the few municipalities in all of Iowa that has its own public gas, electricity, and telecommunications services. Byrnes knows everyone in Osage and the surrounding areas, giving two-fingered waves as he rolls through the neighborhood in his white Ford.

Osage now has broadband but Mitchell, only a five-minute drive north, is one of those communities that is going without. But after months of work by Byrnes and nearly $400,000, the small village will soon be hooked up.

Surprisingly, the money is not coming from the FCC, but from the Department of Agriculture. Earlier this January, the USDA announced Osage would receive a $397,749 grant through the department’s Reconnect program to run fiber to Mitchell. Byrnes applied for that grant after spending countless hours knocking on his neighbors’ doors, getting to know their needs and families, and discovering that Osage didn’t have the resources it needed to expand into their area all on its own.

“If I hadn’t got that USDA grant, there was nobody that was coming to give those people internet. It was never going to happen,” Byrnes says. “When I submitted that grant, I said, I’m gonna cry either way. I’m gonna cry if I get it, and I’m gonna cry if I don’t get it.”

Starting this spring, Osage Municipal Utilities will start putting that money to good use, supplying broadband to farms, businesses, and households in the underserved areas of Mitchell County. Byrnes calls it a “game changer” for the village and its businesses.

One of Mitchell’s businesses, the Art of Education, was founded by Jessica and Derek Balsley in 2011. After several years working as an art teacher in Iowa, Jessica Balsley scouted around the country for a masters program focused on art education, but she came up short. So she and her husband got to work creating their own accredited university, built entirely online. But living in Mitchell made that already difficult task almost impossible, thanks to Verizon HomeFusion.

“You couldn’t have your video meetings. You couldn’t sync terabytes of data,” Derek Balsley says. So the Balsleys were forced to uproot their business from Mitchell and bring it to Osage.

“We’d love to have a beautiful university building in a rural setting like Mitchell, but the problem is that you just can’t have the connectivity and the high-speed access to make it happen,” Derek Balsley tells The Verge. “For anybody who is interested in saving our rural areas, there is probably nothing more important that would allow these rural areas to thrive like they used to except the internet.”

This isn’t the first time politicians have made big promises about rural broadband. As part of his 2016 campaign, Donald Trump promised a trillion-dollar infrastructure package that would, in part, fund broadband build-outs in small towns like Osage, Mitchell, and Winterset. But after half a dozen false starts, that infrastructure deal ended up taking a back seat to tax cuts, the abortive Obamacare repeal effort, and the ongoing immigration fight. If any families like the Balsleys had counted on Trump’s infrastructure package, they’re still waiting.

The biggest progress made during the past four years has come from FCC chairman Ajit Pai. In a meeting last Thursday, the FCC voted to approve a program called the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund to succeed its Connect America Fund that came before it. RDOF creates a pot of more than $20 billion for cooperatives, satellite operators, and other telecoms to compete for in order to support broadband projects in unserved areas across the country.

But the rebranded broadband program hasn’t won everyone over. Commissioner Geoffrey Starks, one of the two Democratic FCC commissioners, dissented to the RDOF order, saying the current version excludes “any area that the Commission ‘know[s] to be awarded funding through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s ReConnect Program or other similar federal or state broadband subsidy programs, or those subject to enforceable broadband deployment obligations.” At Thursday’s meeting, Chairman Ajit Pai said RDOF would ban big companies that already have buildout goals they promised to meet but never did, but the uncertainty puts smaller telecoms like Osage in a difficult spot.

At the rallies and town halls, Democrats are promising that things will be different when they’re in charge, and most of what they’re promising is money. Joe Biden has pledged to invest $20 billion into rural broadband, if elected. Pete Buttigieg is offering $80 billion, with a promise to fund locally owned networks where their big telecoms fall short. Sanders has pledged as much as $150 billion, as part of his Green New Deal plan, that would flow to “publicly owned and democratically controlled, co-operative, or open access broadband networks.” But like any campaign promise, it’s not clear how much of that money will get through Congress, and there’s a growing anxiety among experts that money alone isn’t enough.

“You can’t just throw money at this”

“You can’t just throw money at this,” Harold Feld, senior vice president at Public Knowledge, tells The Verge. “We’re now having huge scandals about companies like Frontier and Centurylink that took the money but didn’t provide the service.”

Some plans would go further than just money. Proposals from Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders would preempt any state laws that ban local communities from building their own municipal and public networks. The plans would also send their money ($85 billion and $150 billion respectively) directly to electricity and telephone cooperatives, nonprofits, tribes, local governments, and municipal networks like Osage.

There are already programs like Lifeline that put money directly into the hands of consumers. This approach makes the customers more valuable to carriers because they’re able to pay for more access than they were before — and in theory, lets them hold the companies accountable for the speeds low-income Americans receive. But smaller cooperatives like Osage say they know their communities far better than Verizon and AT&T.

“Verizon is accountable to its shareholders,” Feld says. “It’s better if you get someone who’s in the community, because they’re doing this because they know the people.”

And 5G, the technology many believe will reshape how rural communities access the internet, doesn’t change the economics. Wireless towers are still hooked up to the rest of the internet through high-capacity cables and wires. In areas like Mitchell, homes can be miles apart, some on top of hills, some deep in valleys, and this landscape dramatically affects their connectivity. If wireless is unavailable to them, they often opt for satellite services like Windstream and HughesNet that can be choppy and not live up to the speeds the companies promise.

“My concern is that we don’t make policy prematurely,” Gigi Sohn, tech policy fellow at Georgetown Law, said at a hearing on rural connectivity last week. “There’s lots of talk about the ‘Race to 5G,’ but 5G is a marathon, not a sprint. 5G is coming, but it’s unwise to make broadband policy based on what 5G might be.”

In Osage, at least, broadband access has led to a swell in new business. Byrnes says former residents have started coming back to build businesses. Riding around northern Iowa, Byrnes dreamed about everything the area could become if Osage Municipal Utilities, or any telecom for that matter, could connect the households and businesses that line the streets and highways.

“There’s a beautiful trail system here,” Byrnes says. “But who would want to eat and drink at this restaurant if they can’t watch the Super Bowl?”Don't like wearable tech? Get your bedroom to track you instead
Rami Niemi

“To know thyself is the beginning of wisdom”. Soon, however, that wisdom will not come from watches and rings that we wrap on our bodies, but the very walls and spaces we inhabit. Previously, information such as heart-rate, emotional state and cognitive and physical stress was collected by wearable devices – now we are able to measure them via sensors in the space itself.

A single space will be a dynamic extension of our own psyches. Ubiquitous sensing in our environments paired with machine learning will transform how we interact with our spaces and how they interact with each of us. By becoming extensions of ourselves, such spaces will help us to be more effective and successful in what we are trying to accomplish, as well as turning a single physical space into one that dynamically serves many purposes for multiple people.

Advertisement

In 2020, we will see our spaces evolve as technological partners that may know more about us than we do. It will change the most intimate definition and relationship of how we interact with and think about the materials and information in the walls and air around us.

The reactive and empathetic technological brain of our spaces will rely on the amalgamation of data from sensors that track proximity, CO2, our bodies’ thermal dynamics, emotion, eye gaze and diameter, humidity, temperature, motion, light, pressure, ultrasound and microphones learning and gaining insight into our cognitive and physical wellness from the dynamics and spectral changes of our voices and ambient environments.

Read next How China's coronavirus outbreak started, explained How China's coronavirus outbreak started, explained

The output of these sensors will be paired with machine learning and AI assessment, allowing our spaces to understand changes in our emotions. For example: my research group at Dolby Laboratories has been able to show changes in the density of CO2 in a space can correspond with changes in emotion and stress of individuals in the room. Combining this with input from other sensors, such as heart rate and thermal cameras, we can show that changes in the thermal signature correspond to shifts in an individual’s engagement and attention.

This sort of personal information will prompt rooms to adapt and modify their temperature, colour, sound and ambient and natural lighting to best support what the individual is trying accomplish. Perhaps that’s morphing into a space that helps us reach an effective flow state, or it may be one that inches us closer to calm or helps us to have more effective sleep.

Advertisement

Smart-mattress innovators such as BRYTE have incorporated “empathetic” technology that uses biometrics to modify the temperature and firmness of its mattress to dynamically improve a user’s sleep. Its system already enables integration to Hue lighting and Nest temperature controls, extending and connecting optimisation of the user’s internal state and goal of improved sleep into the dynamics of the room and space.

We will see elders, who would otherwise be in care facilities, empowered to live autonomously because their emotional and physical wellbeing are more transparent and better protected. This has the impact of improving their quality of life and saving the individual substantial costs.

Numerous companies are introducing technologies that will empower individuals through walls and spaces that listen, inform, and aid the mind and body. Both Nokia and IBM have significant efforts to use sensors that are easily introduced or already inhabit spaces to improve and extend the quality and autonomy of living for an ageing population. IBM has even been evaluating applications of LiDAR in the home as a way of tracking location and changes in gait associated with shifts in emotional and physical well being.

Read next How to dodge the beef bender and keep your January detox going How to dodge the beef bender and keep your January detox going

Establishing trusted and compliant data privacy protocols for exchange, use, and a transparent data lifecycle is critical. This is a topic under discussion, with many governments establishing regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act (going into effect in 2020), as well as many companies making earnest commitments to design with privacy in mind.

Advertisement

2020 will mark a sea change in what we expect from our rooms. Rather than living our lives in static spaces and moving to new spaces when we change our goals and intent, our spaces will start to change with us and help us be more successful.

Poppy Crum is chief scientist at Dolby Laboratories and an adjunct professor at Stanford University.

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn