Being an international woman of mystery never required so little effort
Moving to a different country is strange, but you know what’s even stranger? Coming back. Every time I come home to the UK from New York, I start noticing things that Americans find strange about English people. I’m currently en route back for the Christmas holidays (I’m treating myself by spending 10 days traipsing in between my mum’s house, my dad’s house and my fiance’s parents’ house, who all live at completely different corners of the country) and I’m preparing myself for an odd kind of reverse culture shock I know I should expect.

During my first month in New York City, a friend of a friend kindly took me out for a drink in a nice area of Manhattan. She was also a British expat, but she’d been living in the US for five years by then, and was considering whether she would ever go home. “I miss so many things about England,” she told me. “The TV shows, the familiarity, the proximity to family. But I’ve become so weirdly removed from it. I tried to listen to a UK podcast the other day and I found the accents so overpowering that I had to switch it off.”

When I hear another English person in a bar or walking down the streets of NYC, I bristle. I hear them how Americans hear them: over-formal, with drawn-out vowels and a propensity to speak in a much lower toneWhy gardening is so much more than a millennial fad to me
My family are one of the lucky few to have an allotment in London. With waiting lists that tend to span years, these plots of land are hard to come by. Hidden in Stockwell, ours seemed like a haven far away from the bustle of the city – and as I child, I loved it. It was full of prickly gooseberries, the most crimson mulberries, sprouting onions and summer strawberries; spending my weekends at our allotment was absolute bliss.

As the child of an adept florist, plants and gardening have always been a big part of my life. My mum, with her seriously green fingers and an astoundingly extensive knowledge of botany, can grow just about anything. Whether it’s an impressive arrangement of flowers stuffed with eucalyptus leaves, or an array of plant shoots, herbs or flower clippings, it always seemed inevitable that my mum’s love of plants and gardening would rub off on me.

And it did, for a while. Growing Club was a beloved after-school activity; nothing filled me with wonder quite like visiting those giant, humid greenhouses in Kew Gardens. And Ground Force was the best makeover show television had to offer, in my eyes.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Shape Created with Sketch. Scottish Nature Photography Awards Show all 12 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Scottish Nature Photography Awards 1/12 Eurasian Curlew with Shore Crab Winner of the Wildlife Behaviour category. Taken in Loch Fleet, Sutherland Toby Houlton 2/12 Breakfast at Dawn on the Solway Winner of the Environmental category. Taken in Sandyhills Bay, Dumfries and Galloway Roger Lever 3/12 Horsehair Parachute Mushroom Winner of the Botanical category. Taken in Ae Forest, Dumfries and Galloway Jean Robson 4/12 Roe Kid Flower Overall winner and winner of the wildlife portrait category. Taken in Edinburgh Phil Johnston 5/12 Allotments in Inverleith Park Winner of the Urban Greenspace category. Taken in Edinburgh Andras Sandor 6/12 Whisky on the Rocks Winner of the Natural Abstract category. Taken on the Isle of Lewis Charly Scleder 7/12 Peek-a-boo Winner of the Junior Nature Photographer award. Taken in Lossiemouth Woods in Moray by Kaitlyn Clark, age 8 from Inverness. Kaitlyn Clark 8/12 Beauly Winner of the Land category. Taken in Dundonnell, Ross and Cramarty Colin Campbell 9/12 Rattray Head Lighthouse Winner of the Sea & Coast category. Taken in Aberdeenshire Wojciech Kruczynski 10/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 11/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 12/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 1/12 Eurasian Curlew with Shore Crab Winner of the Wildlife Behaviour category. Taken in Loch Fleet, Sutherland Toby Houlton 2/12 Breakfast at Dawn on the Solway Winner of the Environmental category. Taken in Sandyhills Bay, Dumfries and Galloway Roger Lever 3/12 Horsehair Parachute Mushroom Winner of the Botanical category. Taken in Ae Forest, Dumfries and Galloway Jean Robson 4/12 Roe Kid Flower Overall winner and winner of the wildlife portrait category. Taken in Edinburgh Phil Johnston 5/12 Allotments in Inverleith Park Winner of the Urban Greenspace category. Taken in Edinburgh Andras Sandor 6/12 Whisky on the Rocks Winner of the Natural Abstract category. Taken on the Isle of Lewis Charly Scleder 7/12 Peek-a-boo Winner of the Junior Nature Photographer award. Taken in Lossiemouth Woods in Moray by Kaitlyn Clark, age 8 from Inverness. Kaitlyn Clark 8/12 Beauly Winner of the Land category. Taken in Dundonnell, Ross and Cramarty Colin Campbell 9/12 Rattray Head Lighthouse Winner of the Sea & Coast category. Taken in Aberdeenshire Wojciech Kruczynski 10/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 11/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 12/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb

But the love affair didn’t last forever. What became a Sunday afternoon treat filled with picking vegetables, watering seeds and eating seasonal berries, soon became a chore the older I got.

After all, allotments and gardening weren’t cool, none of my friends gardened and the trendy botanical aesthetic that we millennials now love so much wasn’t in fashion when I was 14.

So, from my teenage years, up until finishing university, owning plants – let alone caring for them – was out of the question. I’d politely decline each time my mum invited me to the allotment, and switch over the channel when the Chelsea Flower Show was on television, pushing down whatever semblance of love I had for it in the past.

But now like many millennials, houseplants have become an obsession. We’re 88 per cent more likely to keep plants in our rooms than over 65 year olds. And I get it, the average age for first-time buyers has increased by seven years and in all this uncertainty, sometimes plants feel like the only thing that can brighten up our overpriced, rented shoe boxes. But they provide much more than just a backdrop for fabulous Instagram pictures.

I fell back in love with plants after getting a small Jade succulent from a colleague at my first ever office job. At first, it was another burden to add on top of my already hefty workload. But caring for it every day and watching it grow gave me more solace than I anticipated. No matter how stressed I was, caring for that one little plant really made feel like everything would be okay. It was the start of me falling back in love with plants and gardening again. That satisfaction of seeing the fruits of my labour never left me.

It sounds silly, but learning to care for plants has really helped me care for myself. I don’t have a child and I don’t have the space or money for pets, but plants do give me a sense of responsibility. On days when I’m feeling down and just want to stay in bed, knowing my plants need watering forces me to get up.

Having something to look after and care for feels so rewarding. I literally reap what I sow, and I get such a kick from all the money I save on herbs now that I grow my own. But one of the best perks about gardening is the time away from my phone, and getting a much-needed breather from the anxieties of social media.

I’m lucky enough to have a small garden in my flat. I have a herb bed with rosemary, sturdy thyme, purple sage and parsley. I’ve picked up great gardening hacks, such as buying potted herbs from the supermarket and planting them myself. I’ve added to my collection, too. Just last week, I planted some sunflowers and white onions, and my bedroom windowsill is filled with succulents. I can’t go to IKEA without coming back with a plant or three, and heading down to Deptford market and buying some cheap potted plants is one of my favourite pastimes.

On top of plants being aesthetically pleasing, they are a life force. Golden pothos, for example, literally purifies the air – it removes benzene and carbon dioxide while replenishing the air with oxygen, making it an ideal plant for the bedroom.

Each plant has a special memory, like my plump gasteria hanging in a macrame, which I got when I first moved house, or my giant tomato plants I bought as a tiny stalk from a summer fair for 50p.

I might not have fingers as green as my mum yet, and I’m still learning as I go – and that’s the process I love the most. The need to care for something is a basic instinct and in an era where we millenials feel so lonely, having plants isn’t just an aesthetic fad; it benefits our mental health too. We should all try and connect a little bit more to nature, it’s an inexpensive hobby, yet brings a world of comfort.Britons struggle to find time for a cup of tea as stress takes its toll, study claims
A study of 2,000 adults found a fast pace of life combined with rising work pressures and a phone that never stops means few people "switch off".

Other factors include the stress of being a parent, longer commuting times and financial pressures amid rising costs of living.

Two thirds of those polled believe a lifestyle that leaves no time to decompress is taking its toll on health and emotional wellbeing.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

The research found those who do find the time, only do so for an average of 54 minutes a day.

The research also found the difficulties we have switching off mean we’re left feeling "mentally frazzled" twice a week on average.

Four in 10 admit their difficulty in unwinding has had a negative impact on their home life. More than half are so busy they have no time to take a tea break.

However, six in 10 feel said they feel apprehensive about straying from their daily routine.

Despite this, the Twinings research carried out through OnePoll, found many of those polled have made changes to their daily routine to help them better relax.

These include taking longer tea breaks during their working day, not looking at their mobile devices in the evening and reading a book before going to bed.

Other methods include taking more tea breaks, doing exercise and enforcing a ‘no talking about work’ rule when at home.

SWNSUpdate your home for the new year
As our homes shed their Christmas spirits, decorations are retired to attic-bound boxes and wizened pines are propped miserably against suburban kerbs. For so many, much of the joy of Christmas can be found in the adornment of the home: decking the halls, as it were. I know I’m not alone when I say I feel a tangible sense of loss around this time of year, a festering unfestiveness. Home simply doesn’t feel as special, as decorated or as welcoming in the glaring absence of a large spruce, garnished with trinkets from Christmases past. However, this year, I have taken it upon myself to maintain that sense of playful decoration around my flat. Little flourishes in each room to catch the eye, inexpensive and joyful. So now the baubles have served their time, ‘tis the season for more evergreen accessorising.

Bathroom

It seems only right and fitting to start with some home updates in 2019’s most wanted colour, Pantone’s Living Coral. Add a hit of the vibrant, optimistic and warm shade in your bathroom with a new set of towels. Sheridan Australia’s Living Textures collection is available in aptly named colourway, Coral.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Featuring a ribbed pattern, these 100 per cent cotton towels are ultra-absorbent and irresistibly plush. The collection also includes decadent jewel tones and minimalist neutrals depending on your style. As the trend for open shelving rages on, why not display your new Christmas beauty gifts in your bathroom, rather than stowing them away in a dusty medicine cabinet?

That way, they may actually be used. Nadia McCowan Hill, resident style advisor at Wayfair.co.uk, suggests styling your pampering goodies, candles and any bath time reads on a cocktail trolley, adding that “golden accents like the serving drink trolley by Vical Home on Wayfair.co.uk, will help to create a spa-worthy space.”

Kitchen

Polishing off all the Christmas treats in the pantry is the primary objective of everyone’s January, so why not do it in style? Spread your leftover strawberry conserve from the Christmas hamper on thick-cut toast, fresh from a Smeg X Dolce & Gabana toaster. Never before has a collection of kitchen appliances ignited such excitement, each piece complete with painterly, Italianate motifs and circusiana charm. The highly decorative collection includes kitchen essentials such as a blender, a juicer, and so on. It is poetically named, Sicily is My Love, and while toast is mine, perhaps these pieces can join me in my kitchen too.

All those aboard the Dry January wagon, look away now. Carry the decadence of the Christmas cocktail party into the New Year with a bar accessories set, such as this marble and copper set by Oliver Bonas. As we speed towards the 100th anniversary of the Roaring Twenties, don’t for a minute believe that F Scott Fitzgerald wasn’t knocking back mint juleps in 1919. Turn a corner of your kitchen into a flair bar for year-round festivity. And remember, good booze isn’t just for Christmas.

Bedroom

It goes without saying that the quickest and easiest update you can make to a bedroom is switching up the bedding. Whether you prefer plain white linen or something colourful, the look and feel of your bedroom can be instantly elevated with a bedding update. New homewares brands with an eco-focus are taking over the market, with brands like Urban Collective and Aizome demonstrating new ways that design can be environmentally conscious.

Urban Collective uses recycled materials and bamboo to create its linens, combining Scandi-style and forward thinking manufacturing techniques. Aizome is another new brand operating out of Japan, named after the ancient process of indigo dyeing. Using only organic cotton and natural indigo dye, the linens are certified toxin-free and skin soothing.

One final bedding suggestion is Rise & Fall, the new project from two New Zealand born, UK-based entrepreneurs, Jed Coleman, founder of Caravan Restaurants and Caravan Coffee Roasters and Will Coulton.

The collection of classic white cotton sheets are available in two weaves created using the world’s finest 100% long staple cotton, gossypium barbandense. The best part is, you can sleep even more easily knowing that £3 from each sale goes to Centrepoint, a youth homeless charity that helps people who are sleeping rough.

Another New Zealand brand is Ashley & Co, a home fragrance company fit for any room in the house. Fragrancing your home is one of the best ways to make your space feel more special. Ashley & Co’s collection of fragrances includes home perfume (diffusers) and waxed perfume (candles) in eight signature scents ranging from musky florals to woody citruses. The architectural layering of the notes in the fragrances is designed with the same attention to detail as the shape and style of the elegant glass vessels themselves – the perfect flourish for an empty corner or shelf.

So treat yourself this January, and carry the decorative spirit of Christmas into the New Year.Pale, Male and Stale: Why The BAFTAs Template Needs A Rethink
Thank goodness for the great British public – or at least that sector of it that voted for the EE Rising Star award, and so provided a lacklustre BAFTA awards with its only prize to be won by a person of colour. Micheal Ward took the prize for his brilliant performances in Top Boy and Blue Story and then brought a welcome blast of emotion to a ceremony that was safe, stale, male and pale – and almost entirely predictable.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020 Red Carpet Dresses

“Seek out opportunities and see a vision,” he said, with sincerity, as his mother sobbed and waved from the audience. Ward’s presence was a stark reminder of absence elsewhere, a fact that the embarrassed organisers tried to disguise with their choice of presenters and that failsafe British mechanism of self-critical joshing, including an opening segment presented by Asim Chaudhry (Chabuddy G) in the style of a British Airways advertisement.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

That was until Joaquin Phoenix stepped up to the podium to collect his best actor BAFTA and, clearly having decided the best actor Oscar is in the bag and it’s time to speak out, threw a grenade into the room by calling on the industry to “do the hard work to truly understand systemic racism”. He included himself in the admonishment, insisting that the “people who have created, perpetuated and benefited from a system of oppression [ought] to be the ones to dismantle it”.

© David Fisher/BAFTA/Shutterstock

It was an uncomfortable moment in many ways – all too easy to mock given the amount of privilege Phoenix himself carries – but when, later in the ceremony, the president of BAFTA, the Duke of Cambridge (who had spent the night grinning his way uncomfortably through jokes about his family) said that the lack of diversity “simply cannot be right in this day and age”, it’s a sign that the film industry really does have a problem that other areas of the arts have gone much further on the road to remedy.

Read more: See All The Pictures From The British Vogue Fashion And Film Party In Partnership With Tiffany & Co

It’s not the only thing that needs addressing, however, on what felt from the comfort of an armchair like a leaden and laboured night. BAFTA must also decide whether it is a genuinely independent ceremony celebrating films that appeal to British tastes – or simply a harbinger of the Oscars which closes the odds on awards in most categories. It was cheering to see 1917, which follows two British soldiers on a desperate mission, win big; it is a magnificent film which is about much more than its illusion of a single continuous shot, and Sam Mendes was a gracious, articulate winner. But to see it take home seven of the nine awards for which it was nominated when a film as powerful as Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman went home empty-handed seems unduly blinkered.

© Anthony Harvey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

Scorsese’s collaborator, Thelma Schoonmaker, didn’t even win the best editing prize; that went to the showy all-boy mechanics of Le Mans 66, an enjoyable film but not one we will be talking about in even a year’s time. Only Brad Pitt’s win in the best supporting actor category saved Quentin Tarantino’s Once Upon a Time in Hollywood’s blushes; it also gave Pitt the chance to make a speech in absentia via Margot Robbie and to make one of those royal cracks, saying he will call his prize Harry because he was “excited about bringing it back to the States”.

But Tarantino lost out in the best screenplay category to Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite (which also picked up the award for best film not in the English language). He applauded but his face was like stone for most of the ceremony; it must be very hard to produce one of the best films of your life yet still have to play the gallant loser for the cameras.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

On occasion, the ceremony departed from the predictable and pre-ordained script (Renée Zellweger won best actress for Judy, Laura Dern best supporting actress for Marriage Story). BAFTA’s choice of Jojo Rabbit’s Taika Waititi as best adapted screenplay winner improves its chances in the same category at the Oscars, but it means that the shutout of Greta Gerwig for her imaginative and life-enhancing work on Little Women was complete.

Read more: Moments You May Have Missed At The BAFTAs 2020

The choice of Joker for the new award for casting – which ignored the ground-breaking multi-racial and colour-blind casting of The Personal History of David Copperfield, as well as the Rolls Royce choices of supporting cast in OUATIH and Marriage Story – felt positively peculiar. Whatever you think of Joker, it is a film built around a single dynamic performance; the others have a richness of acting talent on display that it simply lacks, and it was hard not to feel that perhaps the voters simply went for the film they had watched earliest and knew best.

© David Fisher/BAFTA/Shutterstock

There were some moments to savour. The arrival of Waad and Hamza al-Kateab and their daughter Sama on stage to collect the best documentary award (with co-director for Edward Watts) for For Sama, which records their life under siege in Aleppo, Syria, was hugely emotional. Waad’s impassioned plea that people should let the 3.5 million people still under bombardment and the heroic medical teams who care for them “hear your voice” was one of the most powerful speeches of the night.

Read more: BAFTAs 2020: Vogue’s Best Dressed

In a lighter vein, there was Hugh Grant’s encounter with his former Bridget Jones’s Diary co-star Zellweger. Before he announced the winner of the best film, he drawled: “First of all, well done Jones. That was a very, very silly little dress, I thought.” Every woman in the room laughed in recognition of a line from the film; many of the men looked marginally baffled.

© James Veysey/BAFTA/Shutterstock

And then there was Rebel Wilson, one of the few presenters to bring her own script, and what a script it was: scabrous, rude, full of gags about the failure of Cats – “there has been a distinct lack of nominations for felines” – and ending with a delicious dig at the all-male best director shortlist. “I don’t think I could do what they do. Honestly, I just don’t have the balls.”

There were also wins for the distinctly British Bait, a film shot in black and white, on 16mm film, hand processed by its director Mark Jenkin, about two brothers in a Cornish fishing village (in the best debut category) and for the glorious British short animation Grandad Was A Romantic, directed by Maryam Mohajer. The fact that her victory was not shown in the British TV coverage sums up just about everything that was wrong with the BAFTAs in 2020.

More from British Vogue:

All products featured on the website are independently selected by our Editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission.Iran plane downing: Tehran ends co-operation with Ukraine
Image copyright Reuters Image caption All 176 people on Ukraine International Airlines flight PS752 died when Iranian missile fire hit the plane

Iran has ceased co-operation with Ukraine in its investigation into the downing of Ukrainian passenger jet PS752 by Iranian missiles last month.

It comes after leaked remarks suggested Iran knew immediately that it had struck the plane.

Ukrainian TV aired an exchange between air traffic control and a pilot who was landing as the jet crashed.

The Iranian pilot allegedly states he saw a flash like missile fire in the sky, and then an explosion.

Iran initially denied responsibility for the downing on 8 January that killed 176, but Ukraine's president said the conversation proved the country knew the flight had been hit by a missile.

At the time Iran was on high alert, having fired ballistic missiles at two US bases in Iraq in retaliation for the killing of top Iranian general Qasem Soleimani in a US drone strike in Baghdad.

"We will no longer provide any documents to the Ukrainians," the head of the Iranian investigation team, Hassan Rezaeifar, told Iranian news agency Mehr on Monday.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Pedram Mousavi, Mojgan Daneshmand, and their two daughters were all passengers on flight PS752

In the aftermath of the incident, Iran agreed to co-operate in investigating with "foreign experts".

There are clearly tensions over the conduct of the investigation, the BBC's correspondent in Ukraine Jonah Fisher explains.

Ukraine wants to look at the black box flight recorders. Iran has been stalling for weeks and is insisting on trying to extract the information in Tehran, he adds.

What's in the leaked recording?

The recording is of a conversation between an Iranian pilot who was landing shortly after the doomed Ukrainian passenger jet took off, and the control tower in Tehran.

In an audio clip published by a Ukrainian YouTube channel, the Aseman Airlines pilot says he is seeing lights in the sky ahead.

"Is this an active area? There's lights like a missile. Is there anything?" he says.

"Nothing has been reported to us. What's the light like?" the controller replies.

The pilot says: "It's the light of a missile."

The control tower is then heard trying to contact the Ukrainian plane several times, without success.

After a few minutes, the Iranian pilot tells the control tower he has just seen a "big light from an explosion".

When politics and air investigations collide

The country where a plane crashes is usually responsible for leading investigations, but political interests can get in the way.

In 2014 a missile hit flight MH17 over eastern Ukraine at the height of conflict between Ukrainian troops and Russian-backed groups.

Both sides blamed each other for the disaster which killed 283 passengers.

The Netherlands, which lost 193 citizens, commissioned three investigations, and in 2018 a joint team concluded the plane was downed by a Russian missile.

In 2015 Egyptian and Russian officials disagreed on the causes of the Russian Airbus 321 crash in the Sinai peninsula which killed 224 people.

It wasn't until 2016 that the Egyptian president acknowledged the Russians' conclusion that Islamic state militants were behind the disaster.

And sometimes airlines are reluctant to admit they may be at fault.

A Yemenia Airways crash en route to the tiny Comoros Islands in 2009 was blamed on pilot error by French and US officials.

But Yemenia Airways, which had been accused previously of poor safety, rejected the findings and demanded further readings of the plane's black box.Impeachment trial: Senators to give speeches explaining their votes after closing arguments Monday
(CNN) The House impeachment managers and President Donald Trump's legal team will have a final chance Monday to make their pitch to any senators still on the fence about the verdict in the President's impeachment trial, even if the outcome is a forgone conclusion.

The impeachment managers and defense counsel are making their closing arguments for two hours each on Monday to summarize their case, starting with the House managers. The Senate is poised to acquit Trump when it takes a final vote on Wednesday at 4 p.m. ET. But there still is some uncertainty over the margin of the acquittal vote — and whether any senators cross party lines.

The end-game of the trial is set this week after the Senate voted last week to defeat a motion for subpoenaing witnesses and documents, which would have extended the proceedings. In that vote, which failed 49-51, two Republicans, Sens. Mitt Romney of Utah and Susan Collins of Maine, joined with Democrats.

A handful of senators in both parties have still not said whether they will vote to convict or acquit the President on the two articles of impeachment — abuse of power and obstruct of Congress — that the House passed in December.

On the Republican side, Collins, Romney and Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska are being eyed by Democrats as possible crossovers.

Read MoreA behind-the-scenes look at the crucial Senate vote and that phone call to Trump
Internal disputes and a "clash of competing priorities" interrupted expectations that the all-but-certain acquittal vote in President Donald Trump's impeachment trial would come late Friday.

Debate over lunch, intense huddles on the Senate floor and a final phone call to Trump instead produced a schedule that extends the five-month saga into another week , overlapping with the Iowa kickoff of Democrats' presidential contest and Trump's State of the Union address

It's a coda to proceedings that neither side appears to particularly enjoy. Discussing the next steps over a GOP lunch on Friday, some Republican senators voiced misgivings at dragging the trial into another week, according to people familiar with the matter, particularly after it seemed the party's leaders were intent on moving to a quick acquittal vote.

Across town, the White House made it known a vote before Trump's yearly address to Congress -- which would allow for a victory lap in the Democrat-led House -- was their preference. Many of Trump's allies were already betting on a Friday evening acquittal; a graphic on Laura Ingraham's Fox News program Thursday proclaimed "24 Hours to Victory."

But other Republican senators wanted an opportunity to express their views on the floor after sitting mostly silent -- occupying themselves with fidget spinners and glasses of milk -- for the duration of the trial. And Democrats, eager to avoid vindicating Trump any earlier than necessary, also appeared wary of allowing the impeachment to further impede on their party's nominating process.

"I think most people would like to get it over like right now," South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, a top confidant of the President's, said as Senate leaders worked to strike a deal. "The cake is baked. And we just need to go ahead and move on as soon as we can."

But moving on, however popular among some, was not in the cards Friday.

Meeting with McConnell

During a midday break in the trial proceedings, a number of GOP senators -- including Lisa Murkowski, Susan Collins, Mitt Romney and Lamar Alexander -- met with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in his office to talk over how and when the trial would conclude. Collins, a source close to the Maine Republican said, was "trying to help come up with a solution" that would allow senators an opportunity to voice their reasoning on whether to convict or acquit Trump.

"She doesn't care how much time members get," the source said. "She thinks the speeches can be short."

Other senators disagreed. Some agitated during the party's lunch for a quick end to the trial that would prevent it from stretching into another week. Others expressed concern about another weekend being eaten up in Washington. And some voiced the White House view that Trump should be acquitted before delivering the State of the Union address scheduled for Tuesday.

By mid-afternoon, the dramatics of the procedural wrangling were on full display on the Senate floor. McConnell, fresh from a successful bid to block new witnesses being called, engaged in an intense discussion with the Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, who had come to cameras earlier to denounce a rushed ending to the impeachment trial, saying he would wield his minority power "to prevent things from just being truncated in the dark of night."

The conversation on the floor did not appear heated, but did look direct. The two talked directly for more than 10 minutes before each retreated to confer with aides. McConnell's team huddled for several minutes with other Republican senators.

The extended pause in the proceedings stretched on as each side positioned itself for the trial's next steps. While the leaders haggled, other senators ambled around the Senate floor engaging in small talk and awaiting word.

Behind closed doors

After casting votes on whether to call witnesses, the senators retreated behind closed doors to learn the decision: Republicans to the Strom Thurmond Room, near McConnell's office and the Capitol Rotunda, and Democrats to the Lyndon B. Johnson Room, their normal meeting space just off the Senate floor.

There, they learned the trial would resume on Monday with closing arguments and allow for Senators to speak before a final vote on the two articles of impeachment scheduled for 4 p.m. ET , on Wednesday.

Republican senators said McConnell had no choice but to agree to the Wednesday acquittal vote because Democrats could have used their power under the rules to drag out the process. Republicans decided to cut the deal and spare themselves late nights and a weekend session.

"Democrats were willing to use any number of dilatory tactics, many of which would probably carry us into next week," said Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Senate Democrat.

Trump signs off on timeline

It fell to McConnell to inform Trump the trial wouldn't wrap up by week's end. Speaking by phone, the Republican leader walked the President through the timeline that will bring the impeachment era to a close. Trump signed off, but he wasn't thrilled.

"No matter what you give to the Democrats, in the end, they will NEVER be satisfied. In the House, they gave us NOTHING!" he tweeted as he arrived in a torrential downpour to Palm Beach, Florida, where he is spending the weekend.

A senior Trump administration official acknowledged Friday that Trump's State of the Union speech could come in the midst of his impeachment trial -- the second time in American history a president will deliver the annual address after being impeached.

But the official said the speech will be "forward-looking" and "optimistic," comparing the situation to last year when the government had just emerged from a long shutdown.

Rushing to flee the Capitol on Friday evening, few senators seemed overly triumphant at the prospect of returning to their role as jurors for another three days, even though the schedule was the result of compromise.

Instead, lawmakers seemed satisfied to at least have a weekend to decompress -- or to campaign:

"I've had so much drama today," Murkowski said as she departed, "I'm just going to chill."

"I can't wait to see my grandson," Schumer, fresh from negotiations, told reporters as he left.

"I'm on my way to Iowa," said Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Democratic presidential candidate, sounding excited as he dashed from the Capitol.Tennis news – When could Novak Djokovic surpass Roger Federer and win No.21?
Djokovic’s eighth title in Melbourne, sealed with a five-set win over Dominic Thiem, moved him to within three of Federer in the all-time charts.

The 32-year-old now has his sights on surpassing the Swiss great, conceding that he probably has two seasons to achieve it before the rigors of fatherhood take over.

"At this stage of my career, Grand Slams matter the most. Trying to reach that historic number one is something I would love to achieve and I’m working towards that," Djokovic said in front of ecstatic Serbian fans on Eurosport.

Video - Djokovic targeting Federer's Grand Slam record 06:59

"Being a father, I really want to participate in the upbringing of my children. I want to spend quality time with them, so I know that the moment I slow down and selectively play tournaments is coming very close.

"I want to have a shot at number one, it’s going to be this year or next year. I’m going to try and give it all and reach that."

So can Djokovic do it – and if so, when might he achieve it?

Grand Slam men's titles (all-time)

Player Grand Slam singles titles Roger Federer 20 Rafael Nadal 19 Novak Djokovic 17 Pete Sampras 14 Roy Emerson 12 Rod Laver 11 Bjorn Borg 11

Video - Fanatical For: Experience Novak Djokovic's victory alongside his die-hard fans 04:04

Wilander: Djokovic can hit 19 majors in 2020

Eurosport expert Mats Wilander is backing Djokovic to win two more Slams in 2020 to move within one of Federer.

"So winning here, does that make him the favourite at Wimbledon where he is defending? Yes, that’s 18. [It] makes him the favourite at the US Open, that’s 19," Wilander said.

"At the end of the year, we could have two players on 20 or two on 19 or even more because Novak had can win all four."

"This is a huge win for him going forwards. A loss here would have been very difficult to get confidence and come back. But the door is open for him to start climbing through it and talk about being the greatest ever."

When could the magic No.21 arrive?

Firstly, this assumes Federer will not win another Slam. The Swiss’ groin issue in Melbourne highlighted the troubles of transporting a 38-year-old frame through a two-week tournament, but he can’t be completely discounted. Wimbledon remains his best hope, his serve capable of keeping matches super short, but can he banish memories of last year’s choke against Djokovic?

It’s all hypothetical but Djokovic still looks primed for a sixth Wimbledon title (18). But winning the US Open immediately afterwards is far from certain given he’s won 'just' one of the last four editions. A more conservative estimate would suggest No.19 arrives in Melbourne next year before Djokovic wins a fourth straight Wimbledon (20). As for No.21? Given his vow to tone down his commitments after the 2021 season, all his efforts can fix on one final flourish at the US Open.

Of course, there are plenty of problems with this prophecy…

Video - Tennis Legends: Is it time to move the Australian Open indoors? 04:46

The Nadal and Next Gen factors

Djokovic is four unanswered Slams from taking top spot in the men’s game – but that relies on two men coming up short.

Rafael Nadal also has a strong claim to the GOAT throne, despite winning 63% of his majors at the same event. The French Open has provided a constant source of joy for the Spaniard, who will go for a ridiculous 13th title in Paris this summer. Should he triumph, he too would be on 20 titles.

But if Nadal is a threat to Djokovic, then who is the threat to Nadal?

Step forward, Dominic Thiem. The Austrian looks the only player capable of beating Nadal on clay, having done so in each of the last four seasons. The 26-year-old has lost the past two French Open finals to Nadal, taking just one set, but his victory over him in Melbourne will fuel belief that he can do it again on his favoured surface.

And it’s not just Thiem threatening to break through. Alexander Zverev finally performed at a five-set event in Australia, Daniil Medvedev emerged as a likable villain when he almost beat Nadal in the 2019 US Open final and Stefanos Tsitsipas looks a huge talent after he won the ATP Finals in London last year.

Djokovic, Nadal and (to some extent) Federer are managing their physical decline by maintaining their aura of invincibility – much like the latter years of Manchester United under Sir Alex Ferguson – accepting that their Next Gen rivals will occasionally blast them off court, but will lack the belief and consistency to knock them out at majors. But the talent gap has finally been bridged and freebie Slams will soon be in the past for the Big Three.

The upshot? Federer may already be safe of 20 titles. Or, perhaps, Djokovic and Nadal could join him on 20 and then find it impossible to win that elusive 21st...