Why gardening is so much more than a millennial fad to me
My family are one of the lucky few to have an allotment in London. With waiting lists that tend to span years, these plots of land are hard to come by. Hidden in Stockwell, ours seemed like a haven far away from the bustle of the city – and as I child, I loved it. It was full of prickly gooseberries, the most crimson mulberries, sprouting onions and summer strawberries; spending my weekends at our allotment was absolute bliss.

As the child of an adept florist, plants and gardening have always been a big part of my life. My mum, with her seriously green fingers and an astoundingly extensive knowledge of botany, can grow just about anything. Whether it’s an impressive arrangement of flowers stuffed with eucalyptus leaves, or an array of plant shoots, herbs or flower clippings, it always seemed inevitable that my mum’s love of plants and gardening would rub off on me.

And it did, for a while. Growing Club was a beloved after-school activity; nothing filled me with wonder quite like visiting those giant, humid greenhouses in Kew Gardens. And Ground Force was the best makeover show television had to offer, in my eyes.

Download the new Independent Premium app Sharing the full story, not just the headlines

Shape Created with Sketch. Scottish Nature Photography Awards Show all 12 left Created with Sketch. right Created with Sketch. Shape Created with Sketch. Scottish Nature Photography Awards 1/12 Eurasian Curlew with Shore Crab Winner of the Wildlife Behaviour category. Taken in Loch Fleet, Sutherland Toby Houlton 2/12 Breakfast at Dawn on the Solway Winner of the Environmental category. Taken in Sandyhills Bay, Dumfries and Galloway Roger Lever 3/12 Horsehair Parachute Mushroom Winner of the Botanical category. Taken in Ae Forest, Dumfries and Galloway Jean Robson 4/12 Roe Kid Flower Overall winner and winner of the wildlife portrait category. Taken in Edinburgh Phil Johnston 5/12 Allotments in Inverleith Park Winner of the Urban Greenspace category. Taken in Edinburgh Andras Sandor 6/12 Whisky on the Rocks Winner of the Natural Abstract category. Taken on the Isle of Lewis Charly Scleder 7/12 Peek-a-boo Winner of the Junior Nature Photographer award. Taken in Lossiemouth Woods in Moray by Kaitlyn Clark, age 8 from Inverness. Kaitlyn Clark 8/12 Beauly Winner of the Land category. Taken in Dundonnell, Ross and Cramarty Colin Campbell 9/12 Rattray Head Lighthouse Winner of the Sea & Coast category. Taken in Aberdeenshire Wojciech Kruczynski 10/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 11/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 12/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 1/12 Eurasian Curlew with Shore Crab Winner of the Wildlife Behaviour category. Taken in Loch Fleet, Sutherland Toby Houlton 2/12 Breakfast at Dawn on the Solway Winner of the Environmental category. Taken in Sandyhills Bay, Dumfries and Galloway Roger Lever 3/12 Horsehair Parachute Mushroom Winner of the Botanical category. Taken in Ae Forest, Dumfries and Galloway Jean Robson 4/12 Roe Kid Flower Overall winner and winner of the wildlife portrait category. Taken in Edinburgh Phil Johnston 5/12 Allotments in Inverleith Park Winner of the Urban Greenspace category. Taken in Edinburgh Andras Sandor 6/12 Whisky on the Rocks Winner of the Natural Abstract category. Taken on the Isle of Lewis Charly Scleder 7/12 Peek-a-boo Winner of the Junior Nature Photographer award. Taken in Lossiemouth Woods in Moray by Kaitlyn Clark, age 8 from Inverness. Kaitlyn Clark 8/12 Beauly Winner of the Land category. Taken in Dundonnell, Ross and Cramarty Colin Campbell 9/12 Rattray Head Lighthouse Winner of the Sea & Coast category. Taken in Aberdeenshire Wojciech Kruczynski 10/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 11/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb 12/12 A View to Unconformity Winner of the Student Scottish Nature photographer award. A portfolio of 3 pictures on the theme of 'Coastline' taken by Martin Gibb, a student at City of Glasgow College Martin Gibb

But the love affair didn’t last forever. What became a Sunday afternoon treat filled with picking vegetables, watering seeds and eating seasonal berries, soon became a chore the older I got.

After all, allotments and gardening weren’t cool, none of my friends gardened and the trendy botanical aesthetic that we millennials now love so much wasn’t in fashion when I was 14.

So, from my teenage years, up until finishing university, owning plants – let alone caring for them – was out of the question. I’d politely decline each time my mum invited me to the allotment, and switch over the channel when the Chelsea Flower Show was on television, pushing down whatever semblance of love I had for it in the past.

But now like many millennials, houseplants have become an obsession. We’re 88 per cent more likely to keep plants in our rooms than over 65 year olds. And I get it, the average age for first-time buyers has increased by seven years and in all this uncertainty, sometimes plants feel like the only thing that can brighten up our overpriced, rented shoe boxes. But they provide much more than just a backdrop for fabulous Instagram pictures.

I fell back in love with plants after getting a small Jade succulent from a colleague at my first ever office job. At first, it was another burden to add on top of my already hefty workload. But caring for it every day and watching it grow gave me more solace than I anticipated. No matter how stressed I was, caring for that one little plant really made feel like everything would be okay. It was the start of me falling back in love with plants and gardening again. That satisfaction of seeing the fruits of my labour never left me.

It sounds silly, but learning to care for plants has really helped me care for myself. I don’t have a child and I don’t have the space or money for pets, but plants do give me a sense of responsibility. On days when I’m feeling down and just want to stay in bed, knowing my plants need watering forces me to get up.

Having something to look after and care for feels so rewarding. I literally reap what I sow, and I get such a kick from all the money I save on herbs now that I grow my own. But one of the best perks about gardening is the time away from my phone, and getting a much-needed breather from the anxieties of social media.

I’m lucky enough to have a small garden in my flat. I have a herb bed with rosemary, sturdy thyme, purple sage and parsley. I’ve picked up great gardening hacks, such as buying potted herbs from the supermarket and planting them myself. I’ve added to my collection, too. Just last week, I planted some sunflowers and white onions, and my bedroom windowsill is filled with succulents. I can’t go to IKEA without coming back with a plant or three, and heading down to Deptford market and buying some cheap potted plants is one of my favourite pastimes.

On top of plants being aesthetically pleasing, they are a life force. Golden pothos, for example, literally purifies the air – it removes benzene and carbon dioxide while replenishing the air with oxygen, making it an ideal plant for the bedroom.

Each plant has a special memory, like my plump gasteria hanging in a macrame, which I got when I first moved house, or my giant tomato plants I bought as a tiny stalk from a summer fair for 50p.

I might not have fingers as green as my mum yet, and I’m still learning as I go – and that’s the process I love the most. The need to care for something is a basic instinct and in an era where we millenials feel so lonely, having plants isn’t just an aesthetic fad; it benefits our mental health too. We should all try and connect a little bit more to nature, it’s an inexpensive hobby, yet brings a world of comfort.Mining coronavirus genomes for clues to the outbreak’s origins
Mining coronavirus genomes for clues to the outbreak’s origins

attaaaggtt tataccttcc caggtaacaa accaaccaac tttcgatctc ttgtagatct …

That string of apparent gibberish is anything but: It’s a snippet of a DNA sequence from the viral pathogen, dubbed 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), that is overwhelming China and frightening the entire world. Scientists are publicly sharing an ever-growing number of full sequences of the virus from patients—53 at last count in the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data database. These viral genomes are being intensely studied to try to understand the origin of 2019-nCoV and how it fits on the family tree of related viruses found in bats and other species. They have also given glimpses into what this newly discovered virus physically looks like, how it’s changing, and how it might be stopped.

“One of the biggest takeaway messages [from the viral sequences] is that there was a single introduction into humans and then human-to-human spread,” says Trevor Bedford, a bioinformatics specialist at the University of Washington and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. The role of Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan, China, in spreading 2019-nCoV remains murky, though such sequencing, combined with sampling the market’s environment for the presence of the virus, is clarifying that it indeed had an important early role in amplifying the outbreak. The viral sequences, most researchers say, also knock down the idea the pathogen came from a virology institute in Wuhan.

In all, 2019-nCoV has nearly 29,000 nucleotides bases that hold the genetic instruction book to produce the virus. Although it’s one of the many viruses whose genes are in the form of RNA, scientists convert the viral genome into DNA, with bases known in shorthand as A, T, C, and G, to make it easier to study. Many analyses of 2019-nCoV’s sequences have already appeared on virological.org, nextstrain.org, preprint servers like bioRxiv, and even in peer-reviewed journals. The sharing of the sequences by Chinese researchers allowed public health labs around the world to develop their own diagnostics for the virus, which now has been found in 18 other countries. (Science's news stories on the outbreak can be found here.)

When the first 2019-nCoV sequence became available, researchers placed it on a family tree of known coronaviruses—which are abundant and infect many species—and found that it was most closely related to relatives found in bats. A team led by Shi Zheng-Li, a coronavirus specialist at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, reported on 23 January on bioRxiv that 2019-nCoV’s sequence was 96.2% similar to a bat virus and had 79.5% similarity to the coronavirus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), a disease whose initial outbreak was also in China more than 15 years ago. But the SARS coronavirus has a similarly close relationship to bat viruses, and sequence data make a powerful case that it jumped into people from a coronavirus in civets that differed from human SARS viruses by as few as 10 nucleotides. That’s one reason why many scientists suspect there’s an “intermediary” host species—or several—between bats and 2019-nCoV.

According to Bedford’s analysis, the bat coronavirus sequence that Shi Zheng-Li’s team highlighted, dubbed RaTG13, differs from 2019-nCoV by nearly 1100 nucleotides. On nextstrain.org, a site he co-founded, Bedford has created coronavirus family trees (example below) that include bat, civet, SARS, and 2019-nCoV sequences. (The trees are interactive—by dragging a computer mouse over them, it’s easy to see the differences and similarities between the sequences.)

Bedford’s analyses of RaTG13 and 2019-nCoV suggest that the two viruses shared a common ancestor 25 to 65 years ago, an estimate he arrived at by combining the difference in nucleotides between the viruses with the presumed rates of mutation in other coronaviruses. So it likely took decades for RaTG13-like viruses to mutate into 2019-nCoV.

Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), another human disease caused by a coronavirus, similarly has a link to bat viruses. But studies have built a compelling case it jumped to humans from camels. And the phylogenetic tree from Shi’s bioRxiv paper (below) makes the camel-MERS link easy to see.

The longer a virus circulates in a human populations, the more time it has to develop mutations that differentiate strains in infected people, and given that the 2019-nCoV sequences analyzed to date differ from each other by seven nucleotides at most, this suggests it jumped into humans very recently. But it remains a mystery which animal spread the virus to humans. “There’s a very large gray area between viruses detected in bats and the virus now isolated in humans,” says Vincent Munster, a virologist at the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases who studies coronaviruses in bats, camels, and others species.

Strong evidence suggests the marketplace played an early role in spreading 2019-nCoV, but whether it was the origin of the outbreak remains uncertain. Many of the initially confirmed 2019-nCoV cases—27 of the first 41 in one report, 26 of 47 in another—were connected to the Wuhan market, but up to 45%, including the earliest handful, were not. This raises the possibility that the initial jump into people happened elsewhere.

According to Xinhua, the state-run news agency, “environmental sampling” of the Wuhan seafood market has found evidence of 2019-nCoV. Of the 585 samples tested, 33 were positive for 2019-nCoV and all were in the huge market’s western portion, which is where wildlife were sold. “The positive tests from the wet market are hugely important,” says Edward Holmes, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Sydney who collaborated with the first group to publicly release a 2019-nCoV sequence. “Such a high rate of positive tests would strongly imply that animals in the market played a key role in the emergence of the virus.”

Yet there have been no preprints or official scientific reports on the sampling, so it’s not clear which, if any, animals tested positive. “Until you consistently isolate the virus out of a single species, it’s really, really difficult to try and determine what the natural host is,” says Kristian Andersen, an evolutionary biologist at Scripps Research.

One possible explanation for the confusion about where the virus first entered humans is if there was a batch of recently infected animals sold at different marketplaces. Or an infected animal trader could have transmitted the virus to different people at different markets. Or, Bedford suggests, those early cases could have been infected by viruses that didn’t easily transmit and sputtered out. “It would be hugely helpful to have just a sequence or two from the marketplace [environmental sampling] that could illuminate how many zoonoses occurred and when they occurred,” Bedford says.

In the absence of clear conclusions about the outbreak’s origin, theories thrive, and some have been scientifically shaky. A sequence analysis led by Wei Ji of Peking University and published online by the Journal of Medical Virology received substantial press coverage when it suggested that “snake is the most probable wildlife animal reservoir for the 2019‐nCoV.” Sequence specialists, however, pilloried it.

Conspiracy theories also abound. A CBC News report about the Canadian government deporting Chinese scientists who worked in a Winnipeg lab that studies dangerous pathogens was distorted on social media to suggest that they were spies who had smuggled out coronaviruses. The Wuhan Institute of Virology, which is the premier lab in China that studies bat and human coronaviruses, has also come under fire. “Experts debunk fringe theory linking China’s coronavirus to weapons research,” read a headline on a story in The Washington Post that focused on the facility.

Concerns about the institute predate this outbreak. Nature ran a story in 2017 about it building a new biosafety level 4 lab and included molecular biologist Richard Ebright of Rutgers University, Piscataway, expressing concerns about accidental infections, which he noted repeatedly happened with lab workers handling SARS in Beijing. Ebright, who has a long history of raising red flags about studies with dangerous pathogens, also in 2015 criticized an experiment in which modifications were made to a SARS-like virus circulating in Chinese bats to see whether it had the potential to cause disease in humans. Earlier this week, Ebright questioned the accuracy of Bedford’s calculation that there are at least 25 years of evolutionary distance between RaTG13—the virus held in the Wuhan virology institute—and 2019-nCoV, arguing that the mutation rate may have been different as it passed through different hosts before humans. Ebright tells Science Insider that the 2019-nCoV data are “consistent with entry into the human population as either a natural accident or a laboratory accident.”

Shi did not reply to emails from Science , but her longtime collaborator, disease ecologist Peter Daszak of the EcoHealth Alliance, dismissed Ebright’s conjecture. “Every time there’s an emerging disease, a new virus, the same story comes out: This is a spillover or the release of an agent or a bioengineered virus,” Daszak says. “It’s just a shame. It seems humans can’t resist controversy and these myths, yet it’s staring us right in the face. There’s this incredible diversity of viruses in wildlife and we’ve just scratched the surface. Within that diversity, there will be some that can infect people and within that group will be some that cause illness.”

Daszak and Shi’s group have for 8 years been trapping bats in caves around China to sample their feces and blood for viruses. He says they have sampled more than 10,000 bats and 2000 other species. They have found some 500 novel coronaviruses, about 50 of which fall relatively close to the SARS virus on the family tree, including RaTG13—it was fished out of a bat fecal sample they collected in 2013 from a cave in Moglang in Yunnan province. “We cannot assume that just because this virus from Yunnan has high sequence identity with the new one that that’s the origin,” Daszak says, noting that only a tiny fraction of coronaviruses that infect bats have been discovered. “I expect that once we’ve sampled and sampled and sampled across southern China and central China that we’re going to find many other viruses and some of them will be closer [to 2019-nCoV].”

It’s not just a “curious interest” to figure out what sparked the current outbreak, Daszak says. “If we don't find the origin, it could still be a raging infection at a farm somewhere, and once this outbreak dies, there could be a continued spillover that’s really hard to stop. But the jury is still out on what the real origins of this are.”Top stories: Doggerland’s ‘lost world,’ star-swallowing black holes, and engineering killer moths
Top stories: Doggerland’s ‘lost world,’ star-swallowing black holes, and engineering killer moths

Lost world revealed by human, Neanderthal relics washed up on North Sea beaches

Fifty thousand years ago, a rich territory named Doggerland stretched all the way from Great Britain to the Netherlands, under what is now the North Sea. But as glaciers melted 8500 years ago, that land was lost—as was evidence of the Neanderthals, modern humans, and other hominin species that occupied it. Now, thanks to a €70 million coastal protection project to shield the Dutch coast from sea-level rise, soil from the Stone Age is once again accessible—and it’s turning up ancient artifacts, from a woolly mammoth tooth to the bones and tools of ancient Europeans.

Black holes caught in the act of swallowing stars

At the center of nearly every galaxy lies a monster, a giant black hole millions or even billions of times heavier than the Sun. Most are dormant, lurking invisibly for thousands of years—until a star passes too close and is ripped to shreds. That triggers a monthslong tidal disruption event (TDE), which can shine as brightly as a supernova. Until a few years ago, astronomers had spotted only a handful of TDEs. But now, a new generation of wide-field surveys is catching more of them soon after they start—yielding new insights into the violent events and the hidden population of black holes that drives them.

Genetically engineered moths can knock down crop pests, but will they take off?

Diamondback moths love broccoli. They’re also fond of cabbage, cauliflower, and related crops. And they quickly evolve resistance to insecticides and crops genetically modified to kill them. But frustrated farmers might get a new weapon against them: genetically engineered versions of the moths that mate with wild pests and cause half their offspring to die.

Outbreak of virus from China declared global emergency

In a move that some critics say should have happened 1 week ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus in China a global health emergency. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the move at a press conference on Thursday evening in Geneva. The new disease, first made public by China on 31 December 2019, has already spread to 18 countries; 7834 people have been infected and 170 of them, all in China, have died.

Underwater robot reveals hidden base of Antarctica’s ‘doomsday’ glacier

Using a robot dropped through a 700-meter hole in the ice, scientists stationed on Antarctica’s Thwaites Glacier have captured the first video of the glacier’s grounding line, the mysterious boundary where ice meets land and where warm ocean water could be slowly melting the glacier’s base—putting it at risk of collapse.Home Star Stunner: Best Ever Images of Solar Surface Herald New Era
Why is the sun’s outer atmosphere so much hotter than its surface? What drives its 11-year cycle of magnetic activity? And how does its solar wind propagate out into the solar system? Scientists hope to answer all these questions and more in the coming decade, thanks to an armada of new missions that will scrutinize the sun in more detail than ever before. With the debut of two unprecedented spacecraft and the largest ground-based solar observatory ever built, research into our home star is set to reach new heights.

One of the two spacecraft has already launched: NASA’s Parker Solar Probe, which soared skyward on August 12, 2018. Designed to approach our star within just 4 percent of the Earth-sun distance, or 0.04 astronomical units (AU), it is the closest mission ever sent to our star. The other craft, the European Space Agency’s (ESA’s) Solar Orbiter mission, is scheduled to lift off from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on February 7. Although projected to only reach 0.28 AU, this mission will capture some of the most detailed images of the sun ever seen, including the first pictures of its poles. And today scientists released inaugural images from the four-meter Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope (DKIST) on Maui in Hawaii. Run by the National Science Foundation in the U.S., these are the most detailed images ever taken of the solar surface.

“It’s extremely exciting to be a solar physicist at this point in time, with all of these missions,” says Thomas Rimmele, an astronomer and project director of DKIST at the National Solar Observatory. “With just the first images [from DKIST], you see detail that we’ve never seen before. And this is really just the beginning.”

DKIST’s five instruments are designed to both image the sun and probe its magnetic field, allowing scientists to discern the field’s strength and orientation. Scientists hope to use these data to help resolve the long-standing mystery of why the sun’s corona—its halolike outer atmosphere—is up to millions of degrees hotter than its surface. Data from DKIST will also allow researchers to probe the magnetic fields of the vast structures that arc and loop between these two regions.

Complementing DKIST are the aforementioned Parker Solar Probe and Solar Orbiter. By repeatedly flying close to the sun over the next five years at record-setting speeds of nearly 700,000 kilometers per hour, the former will be able to measure pristine material ejected from our star, and it is already providing invaluable data from its early passes. “Parker Solar Probe is showing us signatures of the solar wind and the plasma in the corona that we’ve never seen before in previous missions,” says Nour Raouafi, project scientist for the probe at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory.

Meanwhile the Solar Orbiter has the capability to directly image the sun from its close-up vantage point—something the Parker Solar Probe lacks. Poking through small holes in the spacecraft’s titanium heat shield, cameras will provide the closest images of the sun ever taken. Beyond the delivery of such stunning snapshots, scientists are already excited about other insights this mission might reveal, such as how our star launches flares and coronal mass ejections—“space weather” events that can severely disrupt global power grids and telecommunications. “The main problem with space weather at the moment is [we have] a 12-hour warning at most,” says Stephanie Yardley, a solar physicist at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland. “If we [know] the evolution of the magnetic field of the sun and the solar atmosphere, we can gain some insight into how these eruptions are actually formed. It’s currently very difficult [to predict them].”

The Solar Orbiter has one more trick up its sleeve, too. It will use repeated encounters with Venus to gradually raise the inclination of its orbit, eventually reaching 33 degrees above the plane of the planets if, as hoped, the mission is extended beyond its initial seven years. Doing so will enable it to orbit the sun at a high angle, capturing images of the sun’s poles. “We’re hoping to see how the magnetic field on the surface migrates toward the poles and eventually influences the ‘flip’ of the sun’s poles [every 11 years],” Yardley says.

Numerous sun-observing spacecraft have been launched before but without the advanced capabilities of these new missions. ESA and NASA’s widely regarded and still operational Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) launched in 1995, but it only sits at a distant 0.99 AU from the sun. The German-U.S. Helios probes in the 1970s, meanwhile, set the previous record for the closest approach to the sun of 0.29 AU, yet they have since been eclipsed by the Parker Solar Probe. And ESA and NASA’s Ulysses spacecraft used a gravitational assist from Jupiter to fly over the sun’s poles in the mid-1990s and early 2000s, but it did so without cameras to image what they looked like.

Together, Raouafi says, these new missions herald an upcoming “golden age” of solar studies. “They have the potential to define the future direction of solar and heliophysics research,” he says. And Gregory Fleishman of the New Jersey Institute of Technology hopes they might inspire even more projects in the near future. He is currently part of a team seeking funding for a new large solar radio telescope after having just used a more modest array to probe eruptions of magnetic fields on the sun. “The golden age would mean the measurements are [across] all wavelengths,” Fleishman says. “One important range is entirely missing: the radio range, which is unique because it’s the only window where we can measure the dynamic coronal magnetic fields.”

For scientists that have longed to answer some of the sun’s most intriguing questions, however, there has never been a better time to unearth its secrets. With the Parker Solar Probe expected to study the sun until 2025, the Solar Orbiter lasting until 2030 if its mission is extended, and DKIST potentially observing for decades to come, solar physicists such as Yardley are thrilled at what the future holds for our understanding. “We’re going to have these three different [missions] to provide us with all these different observations, the likes of which we’ve never had before,” she says. “Hopefully [they] can answer some of these big unanswered questions we have in solar physics at the moment.”Phoenix Open: Webb Simpson beats Tony Finau in play-off
Simpson trailled Tony Finau by one shot at the start of the final day

Phoenix Open final leaderboard -17 W Simpson (US), T Finau (US); -14 J Thomas (US), B Watson (US), N Lashley (US); -13 M Homa (US), S Piercy (US), -12 A Long (US) Selected others: -11 J Rahm (Spa); -10 R Knox (Sco); -1 M Laird (Sco) Final leaderboard

Webb Simpson birdied the last two holes before beating Tony Finau in a play-off to win the Phoenix Open in Arizona.

The 34-year-old American two-putted from 50 feet on the 17th and then holed a 17-foot attempt on the last, while Finau missed an eight-foot putt to win.

That left the players tied on 17 under and Simpson claimed his sixth PGA Tour title with another birdie putt, from 10 feet, at the first extra hole.

"I didn't have my best stuff but I hung in there," said Simpson.

"To come down to the last couple of holes and then birdie 18 twice feels great."

Simpson started the final round one shot behind Finau and drew level with a birdie on the fifth hole.

However, after hitting his drive into the water on the 15th he dropped a shot to fall two behind with three to play.

Both players parred the par-three 16th - the hole surrounded by raucous fans - as the PGA Tour honoured basketball great Kobe Bryant, who died in a helicopter crash last week.

Tournament organisers used Bryant's LA Lakers jersey numbers of eight and 24 to determine the location of the 16th hole pin in Scottsdale. The flag also featured his numbers with a purple eight on one side, and 24 on the other.

American world number 13 Finau and Justin Thomas - who finished tied for third on 14 under - also wore replicas of Bryant's jersey on the 16th hole.

Simpson's winning birdie run started when he drove the green on the par-four 17th before completing his first victory since the 2018 Players Championship with two more on the 18th as Finau faltered.

"It's a bitter week as I look back on it," said Finau. "But lots of stuff to be learned.

"I had a chance, a great chance to win this week. Unfortunately, it didn't happen, but my game's better than it's ever been."Tottenham Hotspur 2-0 Manchester City: Steven Bergwijn scores superb debut volley as Spurs win bad-tempered affair
Steven Bergwijn is the 250th player to score on his Premier League debut, and the 13th Dutchman.

Steven Bergwijn marked his debut with a superb volley as Tottenham won a bad-tempered Premier League affair with 10-man Manchester City to boost their top-four hopes.

The result lifts Spurs to fifth, four points behind fourth-placed Chelsea, while City remain second, 22 points behind leaders Liverpool who can win the title on 21 March when they play Crystal Palace.

The 22-year-old's goal came with Spurs' first shot on target, after Oleksandr Zinchenko had been dismissed for a second yellow card and City midfielder Ilkay Gundogan had seen a first-half penalty saved by Hugo Lloris.

Son Heung-min's effort, which deflected off Fernandinho as it flew past City goalkeeper Ederson into the bottom left corner confirmed a valuable victory for the hosts.

Pep Guardiola's City side had arrived in London chasing their fifth league win in six games and dominated possession but failed to convert a glut of glorious chances.

Lloris brilliantly flicked a Sergio Aguero effort on to the post and the Argentine was then at the centre of a chaotic few minutes towards the end of the first half, winning a penalty awarded by VAR following Serge Aurier's clumsy challenge.

Gundogan however, saw his spot-kick - which took four minutes to be given - saved by Spurs keeper Lloris, with VAR then asked to rule on whether the France goalkeeper had fouled City's Raheem Sterling as both pursued the rebound.

Tottenham's Toby Alderweireld and Zinchenko were booked as both sets of players confronted each other in the aftermath, while Spurs boss Jose Mourinho appeared angered at the referee's failure to book Sterling for diving when a second penalty was not awarded.

Sterling had earlier appeared fortunate to escape with only a 12th-minute booking, after replays showed his studs landing on the ankle and lower shin of Spurs midfielder Dele Alli.

City though were reduced to 10 men after the break, with Ukrainian Zinchenko receiving his marching orders for a foul on Harry Winks.

That allowed Spurs to gain a foothold in the game, with Bergwijn firing Lucas Moura's clever cross into the bottom right corner from 15 yards to set them on their way.

Bergwijn makes immediate impression

Media playback is not supported on this device Jose Mourinho 'so pleased' with 'amazing' Spurs effort

Until the hour mark this had looked like being another occasion on which Spurs were going to sorely miss Harry Kane as the focal point of their attack.

Son and Moura provided dynamism and debutant Bergwijn showed some neat touches, but Kane's ability to hold the ball and bring others into play was absent as the hosts repelled wave after wave of City attacks.

And then the game dramatically swung in Tottenham's favour, thanks largely to Winks' surge forward which drew Zinchenko into a rash challenge and hastened his early departure.

City, who had been readying Gabriel Jesus, were suddenly forced into a rethink and while they attempted to reorganise Spurs went ahead.

Bergwijn, who arrived at the club on Wednesday in a £27m deal from PSV Eindhoven had last scored on 7 December against Fortuna Sittard.

But there was nothing routine about the way he introduced himself to supporters of the north London club - capping a tenacious display with a fine goal.

It marked a dream debut for the Netherlands winger, who pulled up with cramp in the second half, but who was afforded a hero's ovation when he was withdrawn after 70 minutes.

City lack finishing touch

Media playback is not supported on this device Pep Guardiola says he cannot explain why his side failed to score

While Spurs manager Mourinho cut a frustrated figure in the first period over perceived injustices, the roles were reversed after the break with his old nemesis Guardiola appearing exasperated by his own team.

Having reminded his City side to be "more clinical" after their Manchester derby loss on Wednesday, he appeared agitated by their first-half penalty miss and the decision not to award them a second penalty.

And that was compounded two minutes into the second period when German midfielder Gundogan missed a gilt-edged chance, firing over from six yards after Sterling had laid the ball into his path and Aguero's initial effort was cleared off the line by Alderweireld.

The champions had 18 shots but only hit the target five times and both substitute Jesus and Bernardo Silva were unable to convert late chances.

City's lack of cutting edge ensured a sixth defeat of the season, which is as many as in their past two title-winning campaigns combined.

Man of the match - Giovani Lo Celso (Tottenham)

Argentine midfielder Giovani Lo Celso covered more ground (11.78km) and played more passes than any Tottenham player

'It happened again' - what they said

Tottenham manager Jose Mourinho told BBC Match of the Day: "With a few draws of people in the same area of the table as us, it was very important to get three points. We still have an eye on fourth. It was a match where you know the quality of the opponent. You want to win, but you can lose. I'm delighted with the boys.

"Only [VAR] Kevin Friend can explain why it was not a red card [for Raheem Sterling]. He has the chance to watch again. That decision would change the game. It would probably not be such an enjoyable game, one team with one player more for an hour is a big advantage. I think it's a clear red card."

On Steven Bergwijn's goal: "It's the best way to come to a club. We were not putting pressure on him. We signed him early in the week, so we had time for him to train and speak. He's very intelligent, humble. At home against the champions, to score a goal, not a normal goal, couldn't be better for him."

On beating Pep Guardiola: "It's a pleasure to get three points in a match where we knew it would be very difficult. I have better feelings for Pep than you can imagine. We worked together for three years."

Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola told Sky Sports: "We played well but lost the game. It happened again. They had two shots and scored two goals.

"I don't have too many things to say about the performance. We have to accept it and analyse it. It is not easy. We did really well, honestly.

"With this performance, how should I be critical? This performance would be an incredible mistake to say how bad they are. We created chances and conceded few.

"A few times this season it has happened. The sending off was a key point. We said at half-time be careful, yellow cards are a fast and quick action."

Media playback is not supported on this device Pep Guardiola is asked about Man City's chances of winning Premier League

Another City player sees red - the stats

Spurs picked up their first Premier League win against Manchester City since October 2016, which was also a 2-0 victory on home soil (at White Hart Lane).

Manchester City have now lost six games in the Premier League this season, their joint-most in a single campaign under manager Pep Guardiola (six in 2016-17).

Spurs boss Jose Mourinho picked up his sixth win against Guardiola across all competitions - only Jurgen Klopp has defeated him on more occasions (8). However, Mourinho has now won against Guardiola with four different teams (Inter Milan, Real Madrid, Manchester United and Spurs), the most of any manager.

Manchester City have gone consecutive games without scoring for the first time under Guardiola, having last done so back in March 2016 under Manuel Pellegrini (three games without a goal).

Steven Bergwijn's opener for Spurs saw him become the 250th player to score on his debut in the Premier League, and the 13th Dutchman to do so.

Since the start of 2016-17, only Jamie Vardy (6) has scored more goals against Guardiola's Manchester City than Spurs' Son Heung-min (5) across all competitions.

Manchester City have failed to score four of the last six penalties they have taken across all competitions, with three different players accounting for these failed spot-kicks (Gabriel Jesus x2, Raheem Sterling and Ilkay Gundogan).

Spurs goalkeeper Hugo Lloris has saved three of the last four penalties he has faced in the Premier League - indeed, the Frenchman has now made the joint-most penalty saves for the club in the competition (five - along with Heurelho Gomes).

Oleksandr Zinchenko became the third Manchester City player to be sent off in the Premier League this season - no team have been awarded more red cards than Guardiola's side in 2019-20.

What's next?

Tottenham host Southampton in an FA Cup fourth-round replay on Wednesday, 5 February (19:45 GMT), before returning to Premier League action at Aston Villa on Sunday, 16 February (14:00).

Manchester City host West Ham in their next Premier League game on Sunday, 9 February (16:30).Neymar: PSG star celebrates birthday with lavish bash after coach called it a 'distraction'
Neymar arrives at his white-themed party in a suit and matching fedora. He turns 28 on Wednesday

Neymar celebrated his upcoming 28th birthday with a lavish party at Parisian nightclub Yoyo on Sunday.

Paris St-Germain manager Thomas Tuchel skipped the white-themed party under the Palais de Tokyo, after branding it "a distraction", with the event coming just two days before their next game.

It appeared to be a sentiment not shared by the Brazilian's team-mates and celebrity pals however, with Edinson Cavani, Marco Verratti and Angel di Maria embracing the dress code and injured Lyon winger Memphis Depay sporting a pair of £1,200 boots.

All white on the night (left to right): Memphis Depay, Angel di Maria, Edinson Cavani and Marco Verratti

Serial party host Neymar is well known for his extravagant get-togethers, but it was reported that Neymar would rein in his celebrations this year before his actual birthday on Wednesday.

He threw a 'Nuit Rouge' themed event for his 27th birthday for around 200 guests, while he welcomed in his 26th birthday with a black tie event attended by Lewis Hamilton and the president of Brazil.

Sunday's bash came a day after PSG's bad-tempered 5-0 victory against Montpellier, that was notable for incidents involving a pink-haired Neymar and team-mate Kylian Mbappe.

Neymar shrugged off an injury scare, taunted the opposition with his signature tricks and raged at the officials.

Mbappe, 21, reacted angrily to being substituted midway through the second half.

"These are distractions, and they give the impression we are not serious, not professional," said Tuchel, in his post-match comments when discussing Neymar's party.

But on Tuesday, he denied he had a personal issue with Neymar.

"It's my choice not to participate in the party," Tuchel said. "It's a choice as a coach; it's not against Neymar personally."

Mbappe appeared to skip the party all together, instead opting to watch the Kansas City Chiefs win the Super Bowl after attending an event at Disneyland Paris.

Maybe he couldn't find anything white to wear...Football news - 'No hard feelings' says Spurs' Alli on Sterling's mistimed tackle
Sterling's attempt to win the ball saw him step on Alli's ankle but the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) did not deem the challenge worthy of a red card, angering Spurs boss Jose Mourinho who was adamant the England man should have been sent off.

Alli carried on playing before he was substituted in the 70th minute and Spurs, who play an FA Cup fourth round replay against Southampton on Wednesday, are yet to provide an update on the severity of his injury.

Video - Jose Mourinho: 'I thought I would love VAR… I was wrong' 00:50

"There are no hard feelings. He is a fantastic player and we move on."

The tackle was similar to last month's incident where Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was sent off on VAR review and banned for three games when his mistimed tackle nearly injured Crystal Palace's Max Meyer.

Video - Pep Guardiola was speechless when asked about the title 00:42

The result moved Spurs up to fifth in the Premier League standings - four points behind Chelsea and a top four spot - while second-placed City are now 22 points behind league leaders Liverpool. (Reporting by Rohith Nair in Bengaluru Editing by Christian Radnedge)Tennis news – When could Novak Djokovic surpass Roger Federer and win No.21?
Djokovic’s eighth title in Melbourne, sealed with a five-set win over Dominic Thiem, moved him to within three of Federer in the all-time charts.

The 32-year-old now has his sights on surpassing the Swiss great, conceding that he probably has two seasons to achieve it before the rigors of fatherhood take over.

"At this stage of my career, Grand Slams matter the most. Trying to reach that historic number one is something I would love to achieve and I’m working towards that," Djokovic said in front of ecstatic Serbian fans on Eurosport.

Video - Djokovic targeting Federer's Grand Slam record 06:59

"Being a father, I really want to participate in the upbringing of my children. I want to spend quality time with them, so I know that the moment I slow down and selectively play tournaments is coming very close.

"I want to have a shot at number one, it’s going to be this year or next year. I’m going to try and give it all and reach that."

So can Djokovic do it – and if so, when might he achieve it?

Grand Slam men's titles (all-time)

Player Grand Slam singles titles Roger Federer 20 Rafael Nadal 19 Novak Djokovic 17 Pete Sampras 14 Roy Emerson 12 Rod Laver 11 Bjorn Borg 11

Video - Fanatical For: Experience Novak Djokovic's victory alongside his die-hard fans 04:04

Wilander: Djokovic can hit 19 majors in 2020

Eurosport expert Mats Wilander is backing Djokovic to win two more Slams in 2020 to move within one of Federer.

"So winning here, does that make him the favourite at Wimbledon where he is defending? Yes, that’s 18. [It] makes him the favourite at the US Open, that’s 19," Wilander said.

"At the end of the year, we could have two players on 20 or two on 19 or even more because Novak had can win all four."

"This is a huge win for him going forwards. A loss here would have been very difficult to get confidence and come back. But the door is open for him to start climbing through it and talk about being the greatest ever."

When could the magic No.21 arrive?

Firstly, this assumes Federer will not win another Slam. The Swiss’ groin issue in Melbourne highlighted the troubles of transporting a 38-year-old frame through a two-week tournament, but he can’t be completely discounted. Wimbledon remains his best hope, his serve capable of keeping matches super short, but can he banish memories of last year’s choke against Djokovic?

It’s all hypothetical but Djokovic still looks primed for a sixth Wimbledon title (18). But winning the US Open immediately afterwards is far from certain given he’s won 'just' one of the last four editions. A more conservative estimate would suggest No.19 arrives in Melbourne next year before Djokovic wins a fourth straight Wimbledon (20). As for No.21? Given his vow to tone down his commitments after the 2021 season, all his efforts can fix on one final flourish at the US Open.

Of course, there are plenty of problems with this prophecy…

Video - Tennis Legends: Is it time to move the Australian Open indoors? 04:46

The Nadal and Next Gen factors

Djokovic is four unanswered Slams from taking top spot in the men’s game – but that relies on two men coming up short.

Rafael Nadal also has a strong claim to the GOAT throne, despite winning 63% of his majors at the same event. The French Open has provided a constant source of joy for the Spaniard, who will go for a ridiculous 13th title in Paris this summer. Should he triumph, he too would be on 20 titles.

But if Nadal is a threat to Djokovic, then who is the threat to Nadal?

Step forward, Dominic Thiem. The Austrian looks the only player capable of beating Nadal on clay, having done so in each of the last four seasons. The 26-year-old has lost the past two French Open finals to Nadal, taking just one set, but his victory over him in Melbourne will fuel belief that he can do it again on his favoured surface.

And it’s not just Thiem threatening to break through. Alexander Zverev finally performed at a five-set event in Australia, Daniil Medvedev emerged as a likable villain when he almost beat Nadal in the 2019 US Open final and Stefanos Tsitsipas looks a huge talent after he won the ATP Finals in London last year.

Djokovic, Nadal and (to some extent) Federer are managing their physical decline by maintaining their aura of invincibility – much like the latter years of Manchester United under Sir Alex Ferguson – accepting that their Next Gen rivals will occasionally blast them off court, but will lack the belief and consistency to knock them out at majors. But the talent gap has finally been bridged and freebie Slams will soon be in the past for the Big Three.

The upshot? Federer may already be safe of 20 titles. Or, perhaps, Djokovic and Nadal could join him on 20 and then find it impossible to win that elusive 21st...