HIV vaccine hopes dashed by trial results
Image copyright Getty Images

Hopes have been dashed an experimental vaccine could protect people against HIV, the virus that causes Aids.

The National Institutes of Health has stopped its HVTN 702 trial, of more than 5,000 people in South Africa, as it found the jab did not prevent HIV.

Experts expressed "deep disappointment" but added the search for a preventive HIV vaccine must continue.

Such vaccines do not contain HIV and therefore do not pose any danger of giving HIV to an individual.

What was the vaccine?

The jab was a new version of the first HIV-vaccine candidate shown to provide some protection against the virus - in the RV144 clinical trial, in Thailand.

There are many different strains of HIV and the vaccine had been adapted to the subtype most common is South Africa, which has one of the highest HIV rates in the world.

There were great hopes that the vaccine would work and it could then be adapted to cover other strains of HIV circulating in other parts of the world.

What happened in the trial?

Volunteers were randomly assigned to receive either the vaccine or placebo injections.

And preliminary data showed:

129 HIV infections among the vaccine recipients

123 HIV infections among those given the dummy jab

Dr Anthony Fauci, from the NIH, said: "An HIV vaccine is essential to end the global pandemic and we hoped this vaccine candidate would work. Regrettably, it does not."

"Research continues on other approaches to a safe and effective HIV vaccine, which I still believe can be achieved."

Linda-Gail Bekker from the International Aids Society said: "Whilst this is a significant setback for the field, we need to continue the quest for a preventive vaccine."

There is still hope other HIV vaccines in development may work.

How can HIV be stopped?

A drug treatment called pre-exposure prophylaxis (Prep) is effective at preventing HIV infection but, unlike a vaccine, it needs to be taken regularly, even daily.

In countries where such treatments may not be available, the only effective prevention remains using condoms during sexual intercourse - or abstinence.

Recent breakthroughs in anti-retroviral treatments have improved the lifespan of people with HIV.

Debbie Laycock, Head of Policy at Terrence Higgins Trust said: "Through regular testing, condoms, Prep and effective treatment which means people living with HIV can't pass on the virus - we now have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to end the HIV epidemic. It's vital we seize this."Top stories: Doggerland’s ‘lost world,’ star-swallowing black holes, and engineering killer moths
Top stories: Doggerland’s ‘lost world,’ star-swallowing black holes, and engineering killer moths

Lost world revealed by human, Neanderthal relics washed up on North Sea beaches

Fifty thousand years ago, a rich territory named Doggerland stretched all the way from Great Britain to the Netherlands, under what is now the North Sea. But as glaciers melted 8500 years ago, that land was lost—as was evidence of the Neanderthals, modern humans, and other hominin species that occupied it. Now, thanks to a €70 million coastal protection project to shield the Dutch coast from sea-level rise, soil from the Stone Age is once again accessible—and it’s turning up ancient artifacts, from a woolly mammoth tooth to the bones and tools of ancient Europeans.

Black holes caught in the act of swallowing stars

At the center of nearly every galaxy lies a monster, a giant black hole millions or even billions of times heavier than the Sun. Most are dormant, lurking invisibly for thousands of years—until a star passes too close and is ripped to shreds. That triggers a monthslong tidal disruption event (TDE), which can shine as brightly as a supernova. Until a few years ago, astronomers had spotted only a handful of TDEs. But now, a new generation of wide-field surveys is catching more of them soon after they start—yielding new insights into the violent events and the hidden population of black holes that drives them.

Genetically engineered moths can knock down crop pests, but will they take off?

Diamondback moths love broccoli. They’re also fond of cabbage, cauliflower, and related crops. And they quickly evolve resistance to insecticides and crops genetically modified to kill them. But frustrated farmers might get a new weapon against them: genetically engineered versions of the moths that mate with wild pests and cause half their offspring to die.

Outbreak of virus from China declared global emergency

In a move that some critics say should have happened 1 week ago, the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus in China a global health emergency. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus announced the move at a press conference on Thursday evening in Geneva. The new disease, first made public by China on 31 December 2019, has already spread to 18 countries; 7834 people have been infected and 170 of them, all in China, have died.

Underwater robot reveals hidden base of Antarctica’s ‘doomsday’ glacier

Using a robot dropped through a 700-meter hole in the ice, scientists stationed on Antarctica’s Thwaites Glacier have captured the first video of the glacier’s grounding line, the mysterious boundary where ice meets land and where warm ocean water could be slowly melting the glacier’s base—putting it at risk of collapse.Study Reports First Case of Coronavirus Spread by Asymptomatic Person
People showing no symptoms appear to be able to spread the novel coronavirus that has caused an outbreak in China and led world health authorities to declare a global emergency, researchers reported Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine. If confirmed, the finding will make it much harder to contain the virus.

The case described—from Germany—could help resolve one of the major unknowns about the virus, which as of Thursday night had infected nearly 9,700 people in China and killed 213. About 100 more infections have been reported in 18 other countries, but no deaths.

Some viruses, including SARS, which is another coronavirus, can only be passed when a person is showing symptoms. Others, like the flu, can be spread a day or two before the onset of symptoms. If people are contagious before they become sick, they can be unknowingly spreading the virus as they go shopping or to work or to the movies. Trying to snuff out the virus in that case is a much more difficult task.

What’s also concerning is that the spread from an asymptomatic person appeared to lead to two generations of cases, meaning the person who contracted the virus then passed it on to others.

The infection described in the new paper involved a woman from Shanghai who traveled to Germany for a business trip from Jan. 19 to Jan. 22 and displayed no signs of the disease, which include cough and fever. She only became sick on her flight back to China, and was confirmed on Jan. 26 to have the virus, known provisionally as 2019-nCoV.

On Jan. 24, however, a 33-year-old German businessman who had had meetings with the woman on Jan. 20 and 21, developed a sore throat, chills, and muscle soreness, with a fever and cough arriving the following day. He began to feel better and returned to work Jan. 27.

After the woman was found to have the virus back in China, disease detectives went to work, getting in touch with people who had been in touch with the woman—including the German businessman, who by then had recovered and appeared healthy during an examination in Munich. Tests, however, showed he had the virus.

On Jan. 28, three coworkers of the businessman tested positive for the virus. Only one of these patients had contact with the woman from Shanghai; the other two only had contact with the German man.

All four patients in Germany were isolated in hospitals and have not shown any signs of severe illness.

“The fact that asymptomatic persons are potential sources of 2019-nCoV infection may warrant a reassessment of transmission dynamics of the current outbreak,” the experts wrote.

Germany is one of four countries, along with Vietnam, Japan, and, as of Thursday, the United States, to report limited local transmission of the virus outside of China. The large majority of cases outside China were identified in people who had picked up the virus in China and then traveled to other countries.

The increasing risk the virus seems to be posing to countries outside of China led the World Health Organization on Thursday to declare a public health emergency of international concern, or PHEIC.

Until now, there was some debate whether asymptomatic transmission of the coronavirus was possible. Health officials in China said last weekend that they had seen evidence of such spread, but U.S. health officials and leaders at the World Health Organization had repeatedly said that was a question they were still trying to answer.

Even if asymptomatic people can spread the virus, they may be less likely to than people who are sneezing and coughing—routes for the virus to jump from one person to another.

Helen Branswell contributed reporting.

Republished with permission from STAT. This article originally appeared on January 30 2020Microsoft cancels Surface Hub 2X launch, promises ‘major’ software update instead
Microsoft is no longer planning to release its special Surface Hub 2X processor upgrade cartridge this year. The software giant was planning to allow Surface Hub 2S owners to upgrade to this cartridge, improving the processor and GPU inside. It was also part of how Microsoft would enable tiling and rotation support on the Surface Hub 2, a big feature the company originally unveiled last year.

In a leaked webinar to Surface Hub 2 sellers, Microsoft says it’s still committed to developing tiling and rotation but it’s not clear when these features will arrive. “They might not require an upgrade for Surface Hub 2S customers, or they might not require a paid compute cartridge swap,” says a Microsoft spokesperson in the webinar. “We don’t have plans to release a compute cartridge in 2020, because the best way to release those capabilities — tiling and rotation — may not require us to take that path.”

Instead, Microsoft is now planning to release a “major software update” for Surface Hub and Surface Hub 2 customers and its larger 85-inch device. It will be based on the first 2020 release of Windows 10, and include more IT-friendly integration, deployment, and manageability features. Microsoft is releasing this update free of charge for all Surface Hub v1 and Surface Hub 2S devices, whereas the 2X processor cartridge upgrade would have only been available for Surface Hub 2S devices.

While this update will be based on the latest Windows 10 release, it will not be based on the company’s modern Windows Core OS platform that will power Windows 10X devices like the Surface Neo. The compute cartridge (2X) was supposed to update the Surface Hub 2S to this more modern OS, but it’s not entirely clear whether that will ever arrive now. Microsoft’s plans to turn the Surface Hub 2S display into a monitor for other devices to connect to is still planned for 2020, though.

We reached out to Microsoft for clarification around its Surface Hub 2X plans, but the company would only confirm its plans for a software update this year. “We have an ongoing dialogue with our customers on Hub and are working to align the roadmap to best meet their needs,” says a Microsoft spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. “The top two priorities for Hub in 2020 are deploying the 85” device and rolling out an OS update that includes many top features customers have been requesting since Surface Hub 2S launched, including improving IT integration, deployment and management capabilities at no cost for all version 1 Hubs and Hub 2S devices. We’ll have more to share in the coming months.”What the Iowa Caucus means for getting Iowa online
If you need to get online in Winterset, Iowa (population 5,200), you head to the library. Free Wi-Fi has been in place for a while, but starting this week, the library is lending out ten Sprint mobile hotspots in hardshell cases, prepped for students and residents who can’t count on connectivity otherwise.

It’s one of the many creative ways local leaders in Winterset have worked to ensure every person in their community has reasonable access to the internet. Kids who live out in the country still go to school in Winterset, and often submit their homework online as part of the district’s one-to-one Chromebook deal. But with only choppy wireless or satellite signals, it’s hard for country kids to hand in their assignments from home.

“Folks in big cities don’t understand that it’s really different here,” says Jean Bosch, director of the Winterset Public Library. “We just don’t have the same access, and it’s not okay.”

Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America

The problem is much bigger than Winterset. In 2016, the FCC estimated more than 24 million Americans lack access to broadband, and even that was probably an underestimate. Two years later, Microsoft ran its own study and found the FCC had vastly underestimated, determining that close to 163 million people were being left out of the push for the faster web. It’s particularly a problem for rural communities, which are ten times more likely to lack broadband access.

In Iowa, it’s been this way for years. According to the commission’s most recent study, only 77 percent of rural Iowans had access to high-speed fixed broadband (25 Mbps down and three up, per FCC standards). That’s only a 17 percent increase over the past five years. Nearly all homes in the urban areas of the state have access to high-speed internet, but rural areas have been slow to catch up, largely because of the sheer expense of connecting them.

“If we had the ability to serve sparsely populated areas with a decent return on investment, we would have all been hooked up already,” Dave Duncan, CEO of the Iowa Communications Alliance, tells The Verge. In some rural communities, Duncan says, a telecom could lay a mile of fiber or coaxial cable and only be able to connect one home.

The traditional telecoms haven’t gotten the rural residents of Winterset online — and what’s left is a patchwork of grants and public programs that can be hard to predict and harder to sustain. And while the Iowa Caucus has brought massive political attention to the small state, little of that attention has gone to the state’s networks. Campaigns have pledged tens of billions toward connecting rural America, but it’s still a secondary issue for the candidates, raising uncomfortable questions about how long towns like Winterset may have to wait to join the rest of the country online.

Nine days before the caucuses, people were lined up in eighteen-degree weather outside the Ames City Auditorium to see Sanders with Michael Moore, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and the band Portugal, the Man. For the Sanders supporters, the biggest applause lines were about health care.

“If you are tired of student debt, if you are sick and tired and scared of climate change, if you are disgusted with racism and sexism and homophobia and xenophobia, if you believe that health care is a human right, you can’t sit it out,” Sanders told a crowd of hundreds.

At rallies and town halls across the state this past week, health care, climate change, and education were the top concerns, no matter which candidate was on stage. That’s in line with Gallup polling, which shows infrastructure as thirteenth behind more common concerns like health care, education and economic policy. But the simple question of internet access sits in the background of many of those issues.

Alisha Jenecke, a red-haired home-care worker from West Des Moines, says the main issue that brought her to the Sanders rally was health care. But in her work providing that care, she feels the impact of spotty internet almost every day.

“If my signal is gone, I can’t do my job. I had an internet black hole yesterday in someone’s apartment in the middle of downtown Des Moines,” Jenecke tells The Verge. “It’s super annoying to have to write everything down and then go in later and open up the document and put everything back in later. It’s extra work.”

In more rural areas outside Des Moines, connectivity is an even bigger problem. Jeremy Mostek, the founder of Pyro’s Pride fireworks store in Mitchell, Iowa, has trouble watching videos displaying any new products from his Chinese suppliers before he purchases them and sells them to customers. Some folks in Mitchell never bothered making Facebook or Netflix accounts at all because of a lack of access.

Back in Winterset, a few years ago, the Winterset Public School District put stickers up on local businesses signifying that they were a safe place for students to do their homework if they didn’t have access at home. If the businesses are closed, students sit in their cars outside of restaurants to upload their assignments.

In some ways, it’s the perfect problem for big government to solve. The FCC is already tasked with overseeing America’s network, and the commission already operates a range of programs aimed at bringing the internet to underserved areas. But for whatever reason, those programs haven’t reached places like Winterset.

Part of the problem is information. The FCC’s coverage maps rely on self-reporting from telecoms, which often means exaggerated coverage on the official maps. The maps also don’t take into account the quality of the connection, whether it’s through satellite, fixed wireless, coaxial cable, or fiber. An entire community in one county could be listed as having wireless or satellite high-speed internet access, but if they’re in a valley where the beams don’t reach, that access won’t be very useful.

These shoddy maps have enraged both Republicans and Democrats in Congress. “The current maps used to allocate resources are woefully inaccurate and result in overbuilding in some areas while other areas remain unserved or underserved,” Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH) wrote in The Hill on Thursday. Just last month, the House Energy and Commerce Committee — of which Latta is a member — overwhelmingly approved a bill that would make it illegal for telecoms to “willfully, knowingly, or recklessly submit inaccurate broadband service data.” The bill is still waiting for a vote on the floor and in the Senate.

Josh Byrnes, the general manager of Osage Municipal Utilities, has spent the last four years trying to fix his area’s connectivity problem.

Osage, Iowa, is a town of around 3,500 people, only two dozen miles south of the Minnesota border. It’s one of the few municipalities in all of Iowa that has its own public gas, electricity, and telecommunications services. Byrnes knows everyone in Osage and the surrounding areas, giving two-fingered waves as he rolls through the neighborhood in his white Ford.

Osage now has broadband but Mitchell, only a five-minute drive north, is one of those communities that is going without. But after months of work by Byrnes and nearly $400,000, the small village will soon be hooked up.

Surprisingly, the money is not coming from the FCC, but from the Department of Agriculture. Earlier this January, the USDA announced Osage would receive a $397,749 grant through the department’s Reconnect program to run fiber to Mitchell. Byrnes applied for that grant after spending countless hours knocking on his neighbors’ doors, getting to know their needs and families, and discovering that Osage didn’t have the resources it needed to expand into their area all on its own.

“If I hadn’t got that USDA grant, there was nobody that was coming to give those people internet. It was never going to happen,” Byrnes says. “When I submitted that grant, I said, I’m gonna cry either way. I’m gonna cry if I get it, and I’m gonna cry if I don’t get it.”

Starting this spring, Osage Municipal Utilities will start putting that money to good use, supplying broadband to farms, businesses, and households in the underserved areas of Mitchell County. Byrnes calls it a “game changer” for the village and its businesses.

One of Mitchell’s businesses, the Art of Education, was founded by Jessica and Derek Balsley in 2011. After several years working as an art teacher in Iowa, Jessica Balsley scouted around the country for a masters program focused on art education, but she came up short. So she and her husband got to work creating their own accredited university, built entirely online. But living in Mitchell made that already difficult task almost impossible, thanks to Verizon HomeFusion.

“You couldn’t have your video meetings. You couldn’t sync terabytes of data,” Derek Balsley says. So the Balsleys were forced to uproot their business from Mitchell and bring it to Osage.

“We’d love to have a beautiful university building in a rural setting like Mitchell, but the problem is that you just can’t have the connectivity and the high-speed access to make it happen,” Derek Balsley tells The Verge. “For anybody who is interested in saving our rural areas, there is probably nothing more important that would allow these rural areas to thrive like they used to except the internet.”

This isn’t the first time politicians have made big promises about rural broadband. As part of his 2016 campaign, Donald Trump promised a trillion-dollar infrastructure package that would, in part, fund broadband build-outs in small towns like Osage, Mitchell, and Winterset. But after half a dozen false starts, that infrastructure deal ended up taking a back seat to tax cuts, the abortive Obamacare repeal effort, and the ongoing immigration fight. If any families like the Balsleys had counted on Trump’s infrastructure package, they’re still waiting.

The biggest progress made during the past four years has come from FCC chairman Ajit Pai. In a meeting last Thursday, the FCC voted to approve a program called the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund to succeed its Connect America Fund that came before it. RDOF creates a pot of more than $20 billion for cooperatives, satellite operators, and other telecoms to compete for in order to support broadband projects in unserved areas across the country.

But the rebranded broadband program hasn’t won everyone over. Commissioner Geoffrey Starks, one of the two Democratic FCC commissioners, dissented to the RDOF order, saying the current version excludes “any area that the Commission ‘know[s] to be awarded funding through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s ReConnect Program or other similar federal or state broadband subsidy programs, or those subject to enforceable broadband deployment obligations.” At Thursday’s meeting, Chairman Ajit Pai said RDOF would ban big companies that already have buildout goals they promised to meet but never did, but the uncertainty puts smaller telecoms like Osage in a difficult spot.

At the rallies and town halls, Democrats are promising that things will be different when they’re in charge, and most of what they’re promising is money. Joe Biden has pledged to invest $20 billion into rural broadband, if elected. Pete Buttigieg is offering $80 billion, with a promise to fund locally owned networks where their big telecoms fall short. Sanders has pledged as much as $150 billion, as part of his Green New Deal plan, that would flow to “publicly owned and democratically controlled, co-operative, or open access broadband networks.” But like any campaign promise, it’s not clear how much of that money will get through Congress, and there’s a growing anxiety among experts that money alone isn’t enough.

“You can’t just throw money at this”

“You can’t just throw money at this,” Harold Feld, senior vice president at Public Knowledge, tells The Verge. “We’re now having huge scandals about companies like Frontier and Centurylink that took the money but didn’t provide the service.”

Some plans would go further than just money. Proposals from Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders would preempt any state laws that ban local communities from building their own municipal and public networks. The plans would also send their money ($85 billion and $150 billion respectively) directly to electricity and telephone cooperatives, nonprofits, tribes, local governments, and municipal networks like Osage.

There are already programs like Lifeline that put money directly into the hands of consumers. This approach makes the customers more valuable to carriers because they’re able to pay for more access than they were before — and in theory, lets them hold the companies accountable for the speeds low-income Americans receive. But smaller cooperatives like Osage say they know their communities far better than Verizon and AT&T.

“Verizon is accountable to its shareholders,” Feld says. “It’s better if you get someone who’s in the community, because they’re doing this because they know the people.”

And 5G, the technology many believe will reshape how rural communities access the internet, doesn’t change the economics. Wireless towers are still hooked up to the rest of the internet through high-capacity cables and wires. In areas like Mitchell, homes can be miles apart, some on top of hills, some deep in valleys, and this landscape dramatically affects their connectivity. If wireless is unavailable to them, they often opt for satellite services like Windstream and HughesNet that can be choppy and not live up to the speeds the companies promise.

“My concern is that we don’t make policy prematurely,” Gigi Sohn, tech policy fellow at Georgetown Law, said at a hearing on rural connectivity last week. “There’s lots of talk about the ‘Race to 5G,’ but 5G is a marathon, not a sprint. 5G is coming, but it’s unwise to make broadband policy based on what 5G might be.”

In Osage, at least, broadband access has led to a swell in new business. Byrnes says former residents have started coming back to build businesses. Riding around northern Iowa, Byrnes dreamed about everything the area could become if Osage Municipal Utilities, or any telecom for that matter, could connect the households and businesses that line the streets and highways.

“There’s a beautiful trail system here,” Byrnes says. “But who would want to eat and drink at this restaurant if they can’t watch the Super Bowl?”BlackBerry phones could disappear as TCL partnership ends
The brand keeping BlackBerry phones alive across most of the globe, TCL Communications, plans to stop selling BlackBerry phones later this year. In a tweet this morning, TCL announced that it “will no longer be selling” BlackBerry-branded phones as of August 31st, 2020, because it will no longer have the rights to design and manufacture them. Existing devices will continue to be supported.

BlackBerry decided in 2016 to stop making its own phones, after years of failures, and to license its brand out instead. The biggest licensing deal was with TCL, which since December 2016 has had the near-global rights to design and sell BlackBerry-branded phones. It’s done a decent job of it, pairing classically BlackBerry-style designs with the functions of modern Android phones. None of the devices have been blockbuster hits, though, and recent devices have received poor reviews.

Without TCL making new phones, it’s possible the BlackBerry brand will disappear for a moment. BlackBerry does have other phone manufacturing partners, but their relationships are much more limited. BB Merah Putih launched a single phone in Indonesia in 2017, and Optiemus Infracom made some phones for India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Bangladesh. TCL had the rights for all other regions.

We’ve reached out to BlackBerry for comment. There’s no word yet on whether BlackBerry will look for another manufacturing partner or begin to make its own phones again.

The bigger move here may be from TCL. The company has slowly built out its name over the past several years making phones under several different brand names, including BlackBerry, Alcatel, and Palm. This year, the company intends to start selling phones under its own name. Leaving BlackBerry behind may just give the company more time to focus on devices of its own.There are loads of new Marvel TV shows to get excited about
In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

The first teaser for Marvel’s TV shows is here, and they look expensive

Alongside trailers for No Time to Die, Mulan, Black Widow and Minions: The Rise of Gru, a 30-second teaser during the Super Bowl offered Marvel fans a first glimpse at the MCU’s slate of new TV shows, which are coming to Disney+ this year and next.

There were clips from The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, which sees Captain America’s two best mates following in his footsteps – expect lots of shield-hurling, bullet-dodging action. WandaVision – which picks up the story arc of, you guessed it, Wanda and Vision – teased some trippy sitcom-style time travel that must have been a nightmare for the wardrobe department, while we saw just the briefest flash of Tom Hiddleston’s Loki threatening, as per usual, to burn everything to the ground.

Advertisement

It’s difficult to draw too many conclusions from the short teaser, but one thing is clear – this is a markedly different era for the MCU’s TV properties in terms of budgets and production values. Previous efforts like Agents of Shield and even the well-received Jessica Jones were operating in the network drama bracket (think CSI). Now we’re in HBO territory. These are going to be huge.

1917 cleaned up at the Baftas, but Joaquin Phoenix stole the show

Warner Bros

Read next Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad

The one-shot World War One epic picked up seven awards at Sunday night’s Bafta awards, including best film, best British film, best director, and best cinematography – read our dive into how the visual effects artist created the illusion of one fluid shot. Joker’s Joaquin Phoenix used his acceptance speech for best actor to rail against the lack of diversity on the shortlists, and systemic racism and oppression. Even the Duke of Cambridge chimed in – when a member of the royal family is criticising you for a lack of equality, something isn’t right.

The Bafta nominees you can watch on Netflix and Amazon right now Film The Bafta nominees you can watch on Netflix and Amazon right now

Advertisement

The best show of the decade has come to an end

Netflix

The WIRED office spent most of December arguing about what to put in our best of the decade lists, but when it came to television, the number one choice was pretty much unanimous. BoJack Horseman is funny, incisive and desperately sad. Although the lead character is a brash, boorish middle-aged man-horse, the show broke new ground in its treatment of female characters in animation. The final six episodes landed on Netflix on Friday – fans of the show will not be expecting a happy ending.

Uncut Gems curses its way into seventh on the all-time fuck chart

In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

Read next Netflix’s Ragnarok pits the climate crisis against every TV cliche Netflix’s Ragnarok pits the climate crisis against every TV cliche

It was a significant week for Netflix all around – The Good Place’s final season also drew to an end with a double-length episode, and we explored the psychology of what going to heaven would actually be like (spoiler: it would drive you mad).

Advertisement

Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad TV Why living in The Good Place would actually drive you mad

Crime thriller Uncut Gems – which stars Adam Sandler in a critically acclaimed performance – also landed on the platform after a short run in cinemas. The word ‘fuck’ appears 408 times, putting it seventh on the all time list just ahead of Straight Outta Compton. Sandler divides opinion, but he’s clearly doing the business for Netflix, which just ordered another four movies from his production company.

Not Tonight puts you in charge of dystopian post-Brexit Britain

In order to see this embed, you must give consent to Social Media cookies. Open my cookie preferences.

Alright, we have to hand it to you Nige – day three, and society hasn’t collapsed yet (except in one tower block in Norwich). But we’re still in the transition period, and given the tone of the prime minister’s statements, we could be looking at the breakdown of trade talks and a no-deal exit from the European Union at the end of the year. Management game Not Tonight: Take Back Control edition, from the makers of the widely praised Papers, Please! puts the player in a dystopian post-Brexit ruled by an extreme far-right government where, driven from your old life by the chaos, you’re forced to pick up casual work as a bouncer. The game is out now on the Nintendo Switch.

Read next 47 of the best Netflix series to binge watch right now 47 of the best Netflix series to binge watch right now

Amit Katwala is WIRED's culture editor. He tweets from @amitkatwala

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedInDon't like wearable tech? Get your bedroom to track you instead
Rami Niemi

“To know thyself is the beginning of wisdom”. Soon, however, that wisdom will not come from watches and rings that we wrap on our bodies, but the very walls and spaces we inhabit. Previously, information such as heart-rate, emotional state and cognitive and physical stress was collected by wearable devices – now we are able to measure them via sensors in the space itself.

A single space will be a dynamic extension of our own psyches. Ubiquitous sensing in our environments paired with machine learning will transform how we interact with our spaces and how they interact with each of us. By becoming extensions of ourselves, such spaces will help us to be more effective and successful in what we are trying to accomplish, as well as turning a single physical space into one that dynamically serves many purposes for multiple people.

Advertisement

In 2020, we will see our spaces evolve as technological partners that may know more about us than we do. It will change the most intimate definition and relationship of how we interact with and think about the materials and information in the walls and air around us.

The reactive and empathetic technological brain of our spaces will rely on the amalgamation of data from sensors that track proximity, CO2, our bodies’ thermal dynamics, emotion, eye gaze and diameter, humidity, temperature, motion, light, pressure, ultrasound and microphones learning and gaining insight into our cognitive and physical wellness from the dynamics and spectral changes of our voices and ambient environments.

Read next How China's coronavirus outbreak started, explained How China's coronavirus outbreak started, explained

The output of these sensors will be paired with machine learning and AI assessment, allowing our spaces to understand changes in our emotions. For example: my research group at Dolby Laboratories has been able to show changes in the density of CO2 in a space can correspond with changes in emotion and stress of individuals in the room. Combining this with input from other sensors, such as heart rate and thermal cameras, we can show that changes in the thermal signature correspond to shifts in an individual’s engagement and attention.

This sort of personal information will prompt rooms to adapt and modify their temperature, colour, sound and ambient and natural lighting to best support what the individual is trying accomplish. Perhaps that’s morphing into a space that helps us reach an effective flow state, or it may be one that inches us closer to calm or helps us to have more effective sleep.

Advertisement

Smart-mattress innovators such as BRYTE have incorporated “empathetic” technology that uses biometrics to modify the temperature and firmness of its mattress to dynamically improve a user’s sleep. Its system already enables integration to Hue lighting and Nest temperature controls, extending and connecting optimisation of the user’s internal state and goal of improved sleep into the dynamics of the room and space.

We will see elders, who would otherwise be in care facilities, empowered to live autonomously because their emotional and physical wellbeing are more transparent and better protected. This has the impact of improving their quality of life and saving the individual substantial costs.

Numerous companies are introducing technologies that will empower individuals through walls and spaces that listen, inform, and aid the mind and body. Both Nokia and IBM have significant efforts to use sensors that are easily introduced or already inhabit spaces to improve and extend the quality and autonomy of living for an ageing population. IBM has even been evaluating applications of LiDAR in the home as a way of tracking location and changes in gait associated with shifts in emotional and physical well being.

Read next How to dodge the beef bender and keep your January detox going How to dodge the beef bender and keep your January detox going

Establishing trusted and compliant data privacy protocols for exchange, use, and a transparent data lifecycle is critical. This is a topic under discussion, with many governments establishing regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act (going into effect in 2020), as well as many companies making earnest commitments to design with privacy in mind.

Advertisement

2020 will mark a sea change in what we expect from our rooms. Rather than living our lives in static spaces and moving to new spaces when we change our goals and intent, our spaces will start to change with us and help us be more successful.

Poppy Crum is chief scientist at Dolby Laboratories and an adjunct professor at Stanford University.

More great stories from WIRED

🍅 Why do modern tomatoes taste so bad?

🚙 How Tesla became the world's most overvalued car company

📽️ Marvel at the incredible real-life Iron Man

Advertisement

📢 How Slack ruined work

👉 Follow WIRED on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and LinkedIn